ALL
RIGHT, WELCOME TO THE TUESDAY
MARCH 4TH TWENTY TWENTY FIVE
REGULAR MEETING OF THE MEDIA
AND OUR REPLANNING MISSION FOR
DETAILED FOR DETAILED
INFORMATION ON MEETING
PROCEDURES, PLEASE REVIEW THE
FULL FRONT PRINTED MEETING
AGENDA PROVIDED DEPUTY MANAGER
KELLY, WILL YOU PLEASE CALL THE
ROLL?
CERTAINLY NOTING AN ABSENCE
THIS EVENING BY COMMISSIONER
NORTON.
COMMISSIONER ADAMS HERE
COMMISSIONER WHETHER IT BE HERE
COMMISSIONER MILLS HERE,
COUNCIL MEMBER HERE,
COMMISSIONER ABRAMS HERE,
COMMISSIONER HAMMERSCHMIDT
HERE, COMMISSIONER HERE SHORTLY
HERE YOU HAVE A QUORUM.
GREAT.
THANK YOU.
CAN I HAVE A MOTION TO APPROVE
THE AGENDA MOVE BY COMMISSIONER
WEISS SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER
ABRAMS ALL THOSE IN FAVOR
OF THE MOTION PLEASE SAY I HIGH
AND YOU OPPOSED SEEING NONE
OF MOTION PASSES MAY I HAVE A
MOTION TO APPROVE THE MINUTES
OF THE FEBRUARY 19 20 25 I HAVE
COMMISSIONER WETHERBEE AND
SECONDED BY COUNCIL NO DESH ANY
DISCUSSION OF THE MINUTES ALL
THOSE IN FAVOR SAY I ANY
OPPOSED C NONE.
THE MOTION CARRIES NEXT UP IS
GOING TO BE THE REPORTS OF THE
PLANNING COMMISSION RIGHT
BEFORE WE GET THERE I JUST
WANTED TO POINT OUT FOR THOSE
OF US THAT ARE NEW PLANNING
COMMISSION WE HAVE TWO PUBLIC
COMMENT PERIODS ONES AT THE
BEGINNING IT'LL COME UP PRETTY
QUICKLY AND THEN THERE'S ONE
TOWARDS THE END.
IF YOU'RE HERE ABOUT THE PLAN,
I WOULD RECOMMEND THAT YOU
SPEAK THE BEGINNING ONE UNLESS
YOU WANT TO SIT THROUGH THE
ENTIRETY OF THE MEETING YOU CAN
SPEAK AT THE END AS WELL.
BUT WE DO HAVE A FEW SITE PLANS
SO I JUST WANTED TO GIVE YOU A
HEADS UP ON THE COMPREHENSIVE
PLAN WHERE YOU MEAN BY THE OH
YES.
THE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN.
THE FOR SHORTHAND THANK YOU.
YES.
>> SO YEAH.
THE FOR SHORTHAND THANK YOU.
SO WITH THAT WE'RE GOING TO
>> SO YEAH.
MOVE ON TO REPORTS THE PLANNING
SO WITH THAT WE'RE GOING TO
COMMISSION AND WRITTEN
MOVE ON TO REPORTS THE PLANNING
COMMUNICATIONS WILL GO TO
COMMISSION AND WRITTEN
COUNCIL MEMBER DISH.
COMMUNICATIONS WILL GO TO
>> THANK YOU VERY MUCH CHARLIE
COUNCIL MEMBER DISH.
.
>> THANK YOU VERY MUCH CHARLIE
>> SO I CAN REPORT THAT THE
.
DEXTER SEYBOLD PARK POINT SIX
>> SO I CAN REPORT THAT THE
ACRE PARCEL TO RESTORE A
DEXTER SEYBOLD PARK POINT SIX
BASKETBALL COURT TO THE ANN
ACRE PARCEL TO RESTORE A
ARBOR HOUSING COMMISSION
BASKETBALL COURT TO THE ANN
HOUSING OUT THERE WHICH IS THE
ARBOR HOUSING COMMISSION
WHICH IS WEST ARBER WAS
HOUSING OUT THERE WHICH IS THE
APPROVED BECAUSE WHY NOT AND
WHICH IS WEST ARBER WAS
NONCONFORMING STRUCTURES WHICH
APPROVED BECAUSE WHY NOT AND
WE LABORED OVER WAS ALSO
NONCONFORMING STRUCTURES WHICH
APPROVED.
WE LABORED OVER WAS ALSO
>> BUT THE REALLY GREAT THING
APPROVED.
THAT WAS APPROVED LAST NIGHT
>> BUT THE REALLY GREAT THING
WERE TWO BALLOT INITIATIVES
THAT WAS APPROVED LAST NIGHT
BOTH MUST PASS FOR EITHER TO
WERE TWO BALLOT INITIATIVES
TAKE EFFECT AND THEY WILL GIVE
BOTH MUST PASS FOR EITHER TO
THE PUBLIC AN OPPORTUNITY TO
TAKE EFFECT AND THEY WILL GIVE
REVISIT THE CENTER OF THE CITY
THE PUBLIC AN OPPORTUNITY TO
AND THEY WILL GIVE THE PUBLIC
REVISIT THE CENTER OF THE CITY
AN OPPORTUNITY TO CONSIDER
AND THEY WILL GIVE THE PUBLIC
WHETHER THEY WOULD AUTHORIZE
AN OPPORTUNITY TO CONSIDER
THE SALE FOR ONE DOLLAR OF THE
WHETHER THEY WOULD AUTHORIZE
CENTER OF THE CITY COMPLEX
THE SALE FOR ONE DOLLAR OF THE
WHICH IS A NUMBER OF PARCELS TO
CENTER OF THE CITY COMPLEX
THE ANN ARBOR DISTRICT LIBRARY
WHICH IS A NUMBER OF PARCELS TO
AND THE NRA DISTRICT LIBRARY IS
THE ANN ARBOR DISTRICT LIBRARY
INTERESTED HAS BEEN NEGOTIATING
AND THE NRA DISTRICT LIBRARY IS
A PLAN WITH THE CITY
INTERESTED HAS BEEN NEGOTIATING
ADMINISTRATOR NOT TO SAY A SITE
A PLAN WITH THE CITY
PLAN OR ANYTHING THAT WOULD BE
ADMINISTRATOR NOT TO SAY A SITE
UNWARRANTED BECAUSE THE LAND IS
PLAN OR ANYTHING THAT WOULD BE
NOT FREE AT THE CITY'S DISPOSAL
UNWARRANTED BECAUSE THE LAND IS
YET BUT THAT WOULD INCLUDE
NOT FREE AT THE CITY'S DISPOSAL
HOUSING AND PUBLIC SPACE AND A
YET BUT THAT WOULD INCLUDE
NEW STATE OF THE ART LIBRARY SO
HOUSING AND PUBLIC SPACE AND A
THAT FOR THAT PLAN TO MOVE
NEW STATE OF THE ART LIBRARY SO
FORWARD, IT WOULD BE RELATED TO
THAT FOR THAT PLAN TO MOVE
AN ITEM ON OUR AGENDA TONIGHT.
FORWARD, IT WOULD BE RELATED TO
>> SO VERY HAPPY TO ANNOUNCE
AN ITEM ON OUR AGENDA TONIGHT.
THAT.
>> SO VERY HAPPY TO ANNOUNCE
>> THANK YOU COUNCIL MEMBER
THAT.
DESH AND THEN WE'LL GO TO THE
>> THANK YOU COUNCIL MEMBER
MANAGER REPORT DEPUTY MANAGER.
DESH AND THEN WE'LL GO TO THE
GOOD EVENING.
MANAGER REPORT DEPUTY MANAGER.
I HAVE A FEW THINGS TO SHARE
GOOD EVENING.
TONIGHT WHICH IS THAT YOUR NEXT
I HAVE A FEW THINGS TO SHARE
WORKING SESSION WHICH OCCURS ON
TONIGHT WHICH IS THAT YOUR NEXT
MARCH 11TH WILL COVER SOME
WORKING SESSION WHICH OCCURS ON
ADDITIONAL ORDINANCE CHANGES
MARCH 11TH WILL COVER SOME
RELATED TO PLANNED UNIT
ADDITIONAL ORDINANCE CHANGES
DEVELOPMENT MODIFICATIONS AND
RELATED TO PLANNED UNIT
PUBLIC NOTIFICATION
DEVELOPMENT MODIFICATIONS AND
OF DEVELOPMENT OF PROPOSALS.
PUBLIC NOTIFICATION
THESE ARE ADDITIONS THAT STAFF
OF DEVELOPMENT OF PROPOSALS.
IDENTIFIED THAT PIGGYBACK ON
THESE ARE ADDITIONS THAT STAFF
THE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
IDENTIFIED THAT PIGGYBACK ON
RESOLUTION REQUEST BY CITY
THE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
COUNCIL WHICH WERE PRESENTED TO
RESOLUTION REQUEST BY CITY
YOU AT A WORKING SESSION LAST
COUNCIL WHICH WERE PRESENTED TO
SEPTEMBER BY MANAGER GUNNAR.
YOU AT A WORKING SESSION LAST
SO LOOK FORWARD TO THOSE ITEMS
SEPTEMBER BY MANAGER GUNNAR.
AND I WOULD ALSO SAY THAT THE
SO LOOK FORWARD TO THOSE ITEMS
WORKING SESSION WOULD BE A GOOD
AND I WOULD ALSO SAY THAT THE
CHANCE TO ASK FOR ANY QUESTIONS
WORKING SESSION WOULD BE A GOOD
ON THE UPCOMING NOTICED ITEMS
CHANCE TO ASK FOR ANY QUESTIONS
FOR THE THREE EIGHTEEN AGENDA
ON THE UPCOMING NOTICED ITEMS
WHICH I WILL READ FOR YOU LATER
FOR THE THREE EIGHTEEN AGENDA
IN JUST A MOMENT.
WHICH I WILL READ FOR YOU LATER
THE MARCH ORDINANCE REVISIONS
IN JUST A MOMENT.
COMMITTEE MEETING WILL BE
THE MARCH ORDINANCE REVISIONS
CANCELED TO ALLOW STAFF TO
COMMITTEE MEETING WILL BE
CONTINUE TO WORK ON ITEMS
CANCELED TO ALLOW STAFF TO
PRESENTED AT THE LAST MEETING
CONTINUE TO WORK ON ITEMS
MOST NOTABLY THE RESEARCH TO
PRESENTED AT THE LAST MEETING
THE BICYCLE PARKING REGULATIONS
MOST NOTABLY THE RESEARCH TO
CONTINUES TO BE UNDERWAY.
THE BICYCLE PARKING REGULATIONS
I KNOW STAFF ARE WORKING
CONTINUES TO BE UNDERWAY.
DILIGENTLY TO CONDUCT
I KNOW STAFF ARE WORKING
INTERVIEWS WITH STAKEHOLDERS
DILIGENTLY TO CONDUCT
AND ALSO LOOK AT COMPARISON
INTERVIEWS WITH STAKEHOLDERS
CITIES AND THEY ARE GOING TO
AND ALSO LOOK AT COMPARISON
CONTINUE TO DO THAT WORK IN THE
CITIES AND THEY ARE GOING TO
BACKGROUND.
CONTINUE TO DO THAT WORK IN THE
THEY'VE NO DECISION POINTS TO
BACKGROUND.
PRESENT TO THE ORACY THIS TIME
THEY'VE NO DECISION POINTS TO
AND STAFF WILL SHARE
AT YOUR
NEXT REGULAR SESSION ON MARCH
18TH A MEMO DESCRIBING THE
POTENTIAL COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
ADOPTION PROCESS.
I UNDERSTAND THIS WAS REQUESTED
AND MANAGER LEINERT SHARED THAT
THAT WILL BE AVAILABLE AT THAT
TIME AND JUST A FINAL NOTE THAT
THERE ARE A LARGE NUMBER
OF COMMUNICATIONS IN TODAY'S
PACKAGE.
SO IF YOU DID NOT GET A CHANCE
TO LOOK AT THAT AREA OF YOUR
AGENDA, THERE WERE MANY WHICH
WERE ADDED AFTER IN THE
AFTERNOON AND EARLY EVENING
TODAY.
SO YOU IF YOU OPEN THE AGENDA
AT ANOTHER TIME, YOU MAY NOT
HAVE SEEN THANK YOU.
DO OTHER COMMITTEE LIAISON'S OR
PLANNING COMMISSIONERS HAVE
ANYTHING TO REPORT?
>> ALL RIGHT.
SEEING NONE WRITTEN
COMMUNICATIONS ARE IN TODAY'S
PACKET.
OK, WE'RE GOING TO MOVE ON TO
THE FIRST PUBLIC COMMENT
SESSION.
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
INDIVIDUALS TO SPEAK UP THE
THREE MINUTES ON ISSUES NOT
LISTED AS A PUBLIC HEARING WILL
FIRST HEAR FROM THOSE PRESENTS
AND THEN THE REMOTE
PARTICIPANTS FOR TO SPEAK
REMOTELY PLEASE PRESS STAR NINE
ON THE PHONE OR USE THE RES AND
FEATURE IN ZOOM IN FOR PHONE
ACCESS PLEASE CALL EIGHT SEVEN
SEVEN EIGHT FIVE THREE FIVE TO
FOUR SEVEN AND MEETING ENTER
MEETING ID NINE SEVEN SEVEN SIX
SIX THREE FOUR ONE TWO TWO SIX
.
CITY STAFF WILL IDENTIFY
CALLERS FOR THE LAST THREE
DIGITS OF THE PHONE NUMBER OR
BY NAME ON ZOOME AND YOU'LL
HEAR AN AUTOMATED ANNOUNCEMENTS
WHEN IT'S YOUR TURN TO SPEAK
PLEASE MOVE TO A QUIET AREA AND
SPEAK CLEARLY AND ANY
BACKGROUND NOISE FOR ALL
PARTIES PARTICIPANTS PLEASE
STATE YOUR NAME AND ADDRESS AT
THE BEGINNING OF YOUR COMMENTS
AND IS THERE ANYONE PRESENT WHO
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
TIME?
>> WELCOME
OF DO I HAVE TO
PRESS THE RED BUTTON?
>> OH YES HI HELLO.
MY NAME IS NANCY AND I RESIDE
AT FIFTEEN TWELVE MONTCLAIR
PLACE.
I'M HERE TO ADDRESS RESIDENTIAL
ZONING PROPOSALS IN THE CITY'S
MASTER PLAN THAT IS CURRENTLY
UNDER DISCUSSION AND I WANT TO
NOTE THAT I'M SPEAKING ONLY FOR
MYSELF AND HERE ARE A FEW OF MY
CONCERNS NO.
ONE BUILDING HEIGHTS NEW BUILDS
NEED TO ACCOMMODATE ANY
BUILDING WITH EXISTING ROOFTOP
SOLAR AND CONSIDER THE
OVERSHADOWING EFFECTS ON LOWER
RISE BUILDINGS TO LOCK
COMBINATIONS AND SUBDIVISIONS.
I FEEL THAT THEY MUST HAVE
MINIMUM AND MAXIMUM SIZE LIMITS
ESTABLISHED AND THIS POINT
DESERVES FURTHER DISCUSSION.
HOUSING EQUITY AND
AFFORDABILITY ARE VERY CRITICAL
CONCERNS FOR ME AND SHOULD BE
OBVIOUSLY FOR A CITY
INFRASTRUCTURE SPECIFIC PLANS
ARE NEEDED TO ADDRESS INCREASED
WASTE, TRAFFIC CONGESTION, WEAR
AND TEAR ON OUR STREETS,
PARKING, PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION
AND MANY MORE THAT WILL RESULT
IN THE INCREASED DENSITY
PROPOSED IN THIS PLAN.
MY CONCERN IS THIS PLAN COULD
RESULT IN LARGE MULTI-YEAR UNIT
BUILDINGS ELIMINATING THE
MAJORITY OF SINGLE FAMILY HOMES
WITH THOUGHTFUL GUIDELINES AND
INPUT FROM ALL STAKEHOLDERS
HOLDERS.
I WELCOME INCREASED HOUSING
EQUITY AND DENSITY.
I AM NOT A NIMBY.
I AM NOT AGAINST INCREASED
DENSITY IN OUR NEIGHBORHOODS
BUT I AM AGAINST LOSING THE
PERSONALITIES AND
CHARACTERISTICS OF OUR LONG
ESTABLISHED NEIGHBORHOODS.
I LIVE IN LOW BOOBA LOWER
BERN'S PARK BECAUSE I LOVE THAT
OUR HOUSES ARE PACKED TOGETHER
LIKE SARDINES AND WE KNOW EACH
OTHER'S LIVES.
I DO NOT WANT TO LOSE THIS.
I'D ALSO LIKE TO COMMENT THAT
THERE ARE NEIGHBORS HERE IN THE
AUDIENCE WHO WON'T BE SPEAKING
BUT I WOULD LIKE THEM TO RAISE
THEIR HANDS IF THEY HAVE
SIMILAR AND OR OTHER CONCERNS
ABOUT THIS PLAN.
>> THANKS VERY MUCH.
THANK YOU.
MY NAME IS LINDA DUBROVSKY.
I LIVE AT TWELVE TO BROOKLYN.
I'M A RESIDENT OF ANN ARBOR AND
I'VE BEEN A HOMEOWNER HERE
SINCE NINETEEN NINETY SEVEN.
I AGREE WHOLEHEARTEDLY WITH
EVERYTHING THAT NANCY SAID AND
YOU HAVE A NUMBER OF EMAILS
FROM ME AND YOUR PACKET.
I'M GOING TO TAKE MY
OPPORTUNITY TO TELL YOU A STORY
BECAUSE I THINK STORIES ARE
OFTEN MORE POWERFUL.
THE STORY INVOLVES AN ELDERLY
WOMAN THAT I HAD A CHANCE TO
MEET WHO LIVED ON DUEY.
I MET HER BECAUSE SHE WAS
FEARFUL IN HER OWN HOME BECAUSE
THERE WERE NUMEROUS COLLEGE
PARTIES GOING ON TWO HOUSES
DOWN FROM HER HOME, A LONG TERM
HOME THAT SHE HAD LIVED IN.
SHE WAS AFRAID TO GO IN THE
BACKYARD BECAUSE OF NOISE AND
PROFANITY FROM HER NEIGHBORS.
I STILL REMEMBER HER FACE AND
THE FEAR ON HER FACE IN HER
HOME A YEAR OR SO LATER I DROVE
BY THAT HOUSE.
IT HAD BEEN SOLD.
THERE WAS A TWO STORY ADDITION
ON THE BACK AND MULTIPLE
SCOOTERS PARKED OUTSIDE.
IT WOULD HAVE BEEN A LOVELY
FAMILY HOME, A HOME FOR YOUNG
PROFESSIONALS BUT IT TURNED
INTO YET ANOTHER NINE MONTH
RENTAL PROPERTY IN MY
NEIGHBORHOOD YOUR PLAN OFFERS
NO ASSURANCES THAT THE KINDS
OF PEOPLE YOU THINK WILL COME
TO LIVE IN ANN ARBOR SORRY I'M
ANGRY.
MY VOICE IS SHAKING FAMILIES,
YOUNG PROFESSIONALS PEOPLE
CAN'T OTHERWISE AFFORD TO LIVE
IN THE CITY WILL ACTUALLY COME
AND LIVE IN THIS HOUSING TYPES
THAT YOU WERE PROPOSING THERE
ARE NO GUARDRAILS TO ENSURE
THAT I WILL NOT END UP LIKE
THAT ELDERLY WOMAN TRAPPED IN
MY HOME FULL OF MY FAMILY
MEMORIES THAT I HAVE BUILT IN
THAT HOME SINCE I HAVE LIVED
THERE SINCE MY CHILDREN HAVE
BEEN BORN NO SUNLIGHT NOISED
FEAR TO GO IN MY BACKYARD,
INCREASED FLOODING IN MY
BACKYARD, NO PLACE TO PARK
BECAUSE YOUR UNLIMITED UNITS
WOULD INCREASE THE PARKING ON
MY STREET WHICH IS ALREADY
DIFFICULT.
>> A HOUSE IS NOT SOMETHING ON
BOARD TO BE MOVED AROUND LIKE A
CHESS PIECE.
A HOUSE HOLDS THE HISTORY
OF THE PEOPLE WHO LIVE IN IT
AND I KNOW THE HISTORY OF THE
PEOPLE WHO LIVED BEFORE ME IN
MY HOME AND I TREASURE WHAT
THEY'RE CONTRIBUTED TO MY HOME
SORRY REALLY ANGRY.
I REQUEST THAT THE PLANNING
COMMISSION IMMEDIATELY SLOW
DOWN THIS PROCESS AND ENSURE
THAT THE VOICES OF THE
NEIGHBORHOODS ARE HEARD
PARTICULARLY THE NEIGHBORHOODS
CLOSE TO THE CITY CENTER AND TO
THE UNIVERSITY.
I'M A RESIDENT OF ONE OF THOSE
NEIGHBORHOODS.
I HAVE A STUDENT.
I UNDERSTAND THE PRIORITIES.
I ALSO WORK FOR THE UNIVERSITY
AND THE SENSE OF THEIR
PRIORITIES AS WELL.
IF IT WERE NOT FOR THE MICHIGAN
DAILY I WOULD HAVE KNOWN
NOTHING ABOUT THESE PLANS AND I
HAVE A CONCERNED CITIZEN WHO
PAYS ATTENTION SO I WOULD ASK
THAT YOU SLOW THIS PROCESS DOWN
AND ENGAGE WITH THE PEOPLE
WHOSE LIVES AND HOMES YOU WERE
GOING TO IMPACT.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
>> I'M BRIAN DOMBROSKI TWELVE
TO BROOKLYN.
>> LINDA'S HUSBAND ACTUALLY I
WOULD LIKE TO JUST DRAW YOUR
ATTENTION TO YOUR OWN
PUBLICATION WHERE YOU TALK
ABOUT LOW RISE RESIDENTIAL AND
THERE'S A BULLET POINT IN THERE
YOU'RE PROBABLY FAMILIAR WITH
IT.
IT DOES.
>> COMMUNITY CONVERSATION WAS
AROUND FOR UNITS AND MINIMAL
HEIGHT INCREASE PLANNING
COMMISSION DIRECTION IS AROUND
FOR STORIES NO LIMIT OR
REGULATION BY NUMBER OF UNITS.
NOW I AGREE WITH WHAT'S BEEN
SAID SO FAR.
I THINK THE PEOPLE WHO KNOW
ABOUT THIS ARE THE POLICY
WONKS.
THEY'RE THE PEOPLE WHO ARE VERY
PASSIONATE ABOUT ABOUT
AFFORDABLE HOUSING AND WE'RE
ALL CONCERNED ABOUT IT BECAUSE
WE HAVE KIDS.
RIGHT.
BUT THE FACT IS I THINK WE'RE
WE'RE ALL IN AGREEMENT OR WE
SHOULD BE IN AGREEMENT IF WE
WANT SUCCESS, IF WE WANT WHAT'S
BEST FOR ANN ARBOR, WE'RE NOT
GOING TO HAVE THAT IF WE JUST
LISTEN TO ONE PORTION OF THE
CITY.
>> AS HAS BEEN SAID I WE HAVE
FOUND OUT RECENTLY ONLY ONLY
RECENTLY ABOUT THIS WHERE
PEOPLE WHO ARE INVOLVED NOW
UNFORTUNATELY THERE'S THE LOCAL
MEDIA HAS BEEN THERE'S NOT MUCH
LOCAL MEDIA NOW.
RIGHT.
UNFORTUNATELY YEARS AGO WE'D
HAVE THE NEWSPAPER WE WOULD
READ ABOUT THIS WE WOULD KNOW
ABOUT IT.
WE'RE FINDING OUT ABOUT IT
PRETTY LATE.
BUT I THINK JUST BASED ON THIS
THE FACT THAT YOU'VE HAD
DIRECTION, YOU'VE CHANGED
DIRECTION THAT'S HOW I READ IT
AFTER THE PUBLIC DISCOURSE
TELLS ME THAT YOU NEED TIME TO
GET THIS RIGHT AND THAT MEANS
MORE TIME TO PLAN THIS OUT AND
MAKE THE RIGHT DECISIONS.
I WOULD BE TOTALLY, TOTALLY IN
SUPPORT OF YOU HAVING MORE TIME
TO DO THE RIGHT THING RATHER
THAN RUSHING SOMETHING WITHOUT
GETTING THE INPUT OF THE ENTIRE
COMMUNITY WHO WOULD BE AFFECTED
.
>> THAT'S ALL I'VE GOT.
THANK YOU.
HI, I'M LISA JAVINS.
I LIVE AT TEN FIFTY FOR MARTIN
PLACE.
I'VE LIVED IN BERN'S PARK FOR
18 YEARS.
I SENT YOU SOME INFORMATION
REGARDING OUR NEIGHBORHOOD THAT
IS IN YOUR PACKET.
I WANTED YOU TO SEE THAT WE ARE
ALL WE ALREADY HAVE QUITE A
BALANCED MIX OF HOUSING TYPES
AND SIZES IN OUR NEIGHBORHOOD.
AFTER MORE RESEARCH ON THE CITY
ASSESSOR SITE AND WALKING THE
NEIGHBORHOOD WITH MY MAP, I
DISCOVERED THAT NORTH BERN'S
PARK HAS APPROXIMATELY FIVE
HUNDRED AND NINETEEN SEPARATE
DWELLING UNITS AND FORTY
PERCENT OF THOSE ARE ALREADY IN
MULTIUNIT BUILDINGS.
I ESTIMATE THAT AT LEAST 40
PERCENT OF OUR DWELLING UNITS
ARE ALSO RENTALS PLUS SIXTEEN
FRATERNITIES AND SORORITIES AND
CO-OPS THAT IS MORE HOUSING
DIVERSITY THAN THE AVERAGE
NEIGHBORHOOD I'LL WAGER.
BUT BECAUSE OF OUR PROXIMITY TO
CAMPUS WE ARE UNDER INTENSE
PRESSURE BY SPECULATORS
INTENDING TO TIP THIS LONG
STANDING BALANCE IN THEIR
FAVOR.
THE TWENTY TWENTY TWO ZONING
CODE CHANGE WHICH INCREASE THE
NUMBER OF UNITS ALLOWED PER
SLOT IN THE R-2 WAS DE FACTO UP
ZONING FOR OUR NEIGHBORHOOD IN
NORTH BERN'S PARK.
A DEVELOPER RECENTLY BOUGHT A
HOME, TORE IT DOWN AND BUILT A
FIFTEEN HUNDRED DOLLAR PER BED
APARTMENTS IN ITS PLACE
DEVELOPERS HAVE BOUGHT SMALLER
HOMES, DOUBLED THEIR SIZE AND
RESOLD THEM FOR A MILLION PLUS.
THIS IS TO SAY
THAT NEW
DWELLING UNITS ARE ALMOST
ALWAYS MORE EXPENSIVE THAN WHAT
THEY REPLACE.
I BELIEVE THAT THE BLANKET UP
ZONING OF EXISTENTIAL
NEIGHBORHOODS LIKE YOU ARE NOW
PROPOSING IS MASSIVE
DEREGULATION IN FAVOR
OF SPECULATORS, DEVELOPERS AND
LANDLORDS.
I'M CONCERNED THAT THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN DRAFT THAT
WE HAVE BEEN SHOWN IS A
SCORCHED EARTH APPROACH TO
PLANNING WHEN YOU LOOK AROUND
THE COUNTRY YOU WILL SEE THAT
THE RESULTS OF THESE ONE SIDED
TOP DOWN COOKIE CUTTER PLANS
ARE ALWAYS THE SAME HIGHER
HOUSING COSTS, LOTS OF MIDDLE
CLASS HOUSING DESTRUCTION
OF COMMUNITIES, TREE CANOPY
LOSS AND HISTORIC HOMES TRUCKED
OFF TO LANDFILLS.
WE WANT SOMETHING BETTER FROM
OUR PLANNING COMMISSION.
OTHER COLLEGE TOWNS LIKE
MADISON AND BOULDER WROTE THEIR
OWN PLANS AFTER NEIGHBORHOOD
ENGAGEMENT.
THEY KEPT A VARIETY
OF APPROPRIATE RESIDENTIAL
ZONES WHILE STILL ALLOWING FOR
GROWTH.
I REALIZED THAT IN OUR OUTSIZED
DEVELOPMENT POPULATION GOALS
WERE HANDED DOWN TO YOU BY THE
CITY COUNCIL.
I HAVE SEEN VERY LITTLE
RESEARCH PUT FORTH AS TO WHY WE
NEED SUCH AN EXTREME PLAN IN
THE FIRST PLACE NOR HOW THE
CITY INFRASTRUCTURE COULD EVEN
ACCOMMODATED OR SUSTAIN IT.
I WOULD LIKE YOU TO LOOK AT ANN
ARBOR RESIDENTIAL NEIGHBORHOODS
WITH YOUR OWN EYES WALK THE
STREETS OF THE NEIGHBORHOOD
WITH US AND CONSIDER HOW YOUR
RECOMMENDATIONS WILL PLAY OUT
THERE.
WE WANT A GROWTH PLAN THAT
WORKS FOR EVERYBODY AND THAT
MEANS RESIDENTS TOO NOT JUST
THOSE LOOKING TO MAKE A BUCK
OFF THE VALUE OF OUR LAND
.
MY NAME IS ROB RUSSELL.
I LIVE AT TWENTY FOUR CRESTLINE
STREET I'VE LIVED IN AND AROUND
ANN ARBOR SINCE I WAS IN FIRST
GRADE AND I'VE BEEN A HOMEOWNER
NOW FOR OVER TWENTY YEARS AND
IT'S NOT UNTIL THIS YEAR THAT I
FELT COMPELLED TO COME AND
COMPLAIN ABOUT SOMETHING THE
CITY IS WANTING TO DO.
>> I ATTENDED PROBABLY THE SAME
INFORMATION A MEETING THAT A
LOT OF THESE PEOPLE DID LAST
MONTH.
IT WAS REFRESHING TO BE MADE
AWARE THAT THE ZONING CHANGES
WERE WERE BEING PLANNED SINCE I
HEAR THAT FUTURE RESIDENTIAL
NOTICE IS ALREADY ON THE
CHOPPING BLOCK.
IT'S NO SHOCK TO ME THE
TRANSPARENCY IS STILL BEING
ERODED.
BUT TONIGHT I'M HERE ABOUT YOUR
RESIDENTIAL REZONING CONCEPT
OF A PLAN I AND OTHERS BELIEVE
THE PLANNING COMMISSION'S
CURRENT PROPOSAL WITH THE GOALS
OF AFFORDABLE CITY AND
DENSIFICATION OF RESIDENTIAL
AREAS WILL FAIL AND DRASTICALLY
.
FIRST OF ALL, RENTERS ARE
ALREADY THREE TIMES MORE LIKELY
TO FACE ECONOMIC INSECURITY DUE
TO HOUSING COSTS THAN
HOMEOWNERS AND RENTS AS WE ALL
KNOW ONLY GO UP UNLIKE THE
FIXED MORTGAGE PAYMENTS IF THE
SALE OF A RESIDENTIAL LOT GOES
TO A SINGLE FAMILY, IT ALREADY
FEELS THAT THE DENSIFICATION
PLAN IF IT GOES TO DEVELOPER
INCREASING DENSITY WITH RENTAL
UNITS WE FALL BACK INTO THE PIT
OF OUTRAGEOUS RENTS.
IN EITHER CASE I FEEL
AFFORDABILITY IS QUESTIONABLE
SINCE I WAS FAMOUS FOR WHAT I
WILL CHARITABLY CALL ROBUST AND
GROWING PROPERTY VALUES THE
SECOND DEVELOPERS WHO ARE
BUYING IN ANN ARBOR THESE DAYS
ARE INCREASINGLY OUT OF TOWN
REAL ESTATE INVESTORS WHO SEE
OUR CITY MORE AS A REVENUE LINE
ITEM AS OPPOSED TO A COMMUNITY
FULL OF PEOPLE PAYING THEM OUR
RENT FUNNELS MONEY OUT OF THE
LOCAL ECONOMY AND INTO
SHAREHOLDERS LIVING WHO KNOWS
WHERE THIRD OF THE CITY AIMS TO
INCREASE RESIDENTIAL DENSITY
USING BUILDING CODES THAT FOCUS
ON FRONTAGES AND HEIGHTS RATHER
THAN BUILDING TYPES AND
PURPOSES.
>> HOWEVER, IT'S MY
UNDERSTANDING THERE'S NOTHING
IN PLACE TO ENSURE ANY DESIGNS
MESH WITH THE WITH THE
CHARACTER OF THE SURROUNDING
NEIGHBORHOOD AND DEVELOPERS
MAKE DECISIONS BASED ON REVENUE
BANG FOR THEIR BUCK AND THE
LACK OF ZONING CONTROL AND
ENFORCEMENT WILL ONLY HARM
NEIGHBORHOOD ESTHETICS
ESPECIALLY IN TRADITIONAL AND
HISTORIC AREAS LIKE NORTH
BERN'S PARK.
>> FINALLY, THERE ARE NO
REQUIREMENTS TO PROVIDE ANY
PARKING FOR THE NEW FOUR STORY
APARTMENT BUILDINGS WILL BE
PERFECTLY LEGAL AS A RESULT
OF THIS CHANGE.
>> BOTTOM LINE, I FEEL THIS
PLAN WILL ACTUALLY RESULT IN
REDUCED AFFORDABILITY, CROWDED
STREETS AND LOSS FAN ARBOR'S
CHARACTER AND CHARM WHILE
SIMULTANEOUSLY DEPLETING OUR
LOCAL ECONOMY.
>> I IMPLORE YOU TO FIND
ANOTHER SOLUTION.
THANK YOU.
HI I'M HANDBURY.
I HAVE JUST A COUPLE
OF COMMENTS AND MAYBE A
QUESTION AT THE LAST MEETING
THAT I SAW ON CABLE BRET
LEONARD WAS RESPONDING TO THIS
POINT ABOUT THIRTY FOOT HEIGHTS
AND ONE TO FOUR UNITS AND HE
SAID THE FOLLOWING AND I TYPED
THIS UP VERBATIM FROM THE
TRANSFORMATIVE TRANSCRIPT.
HERE'S WHAT BRET SAID.
THERE WAS A CONVERSATION ABOUT
THE APPROPRIATENESS OF LOCKWOOD
TO BE IMPOSED IN THAT I'M
INTERPRETING THE BALANCE
OF YOUR CONVERSATION AS IS AS
THAT'S FINE IF LOCKWOOD GOES
INTO A NEIGHBORHOOD THAT'S FINE
AS LONG AS IT IS MEETING
WHATEVER THOSE FOREIGN BASED
REQUIREMENTS HEIGHT THAT IS
FINE.
SO WE ARE NOT GOING TO BE
TRYING TO SOMEHOW ARBITRARILY
SCALE DOWN THE SIZE
OF BUILDINGS BEYOND SOME LARGE
PARAMETERS TO PROVIDE THE MOST
FLEXIBILITY.
THIS IS A PICTURE LOCKWOOD IT'S
FIFTY FEET HIGH.
IT'S ABOUT ONE HUNDRED AND
FIFTY THOUSAND SQUARE FEET AND
IT HAS ONE HUNDRED AND FIFTY
FOUR UNITS.
MY QUESTION IS IS THE PROPOSAL
RIGHT NOW THAT THAT WOULD BE OK
,OK WITHOUT AN ANSWER LET ME
JUST MAKE A COUPLE MORE
COMMENTS.
>> OH SURE.
IT'S YOUR TIME.
IT'S NOT NECESSARILY IT'S NOT
OUR TIME.
WE'RE HERE TO LISTEN SO IT'S
NOT LACK OF RESPONSE.
>> IT'S WELL YOU MR. LEONARD
TOOK YOUR LACK OF RESPONSE IN
THE LAST MEETING TO BE
AGREEMENT THAT LOCKWOOD IS OK.
HE DID HE SAID IF I DON'T HEAR
ANYTHING NEGATIVE FROM YOU THEN
I'M GOING TO ASSUME IT'S OK AND
I'M NOT GOING TO VOTE RIGHT
NOW.
THAT'S WHAT HE SAID.
SO WHAT'S SO MY QUESTION IS
WHERE ARE WE IN THE PROCESS YET
?
>> IS THAT TRUE?
DO YOU KNOW DO YOU NOT DO YOU
HAVE A DRAFT?
DO YOU NOT HAVE A DRAFT?
WHERE ARE WE?
I THINK IT IS YEAH.
THIS IS NOT IT'S NOT A THIS IS
YOUR TIME TO SPEAK SO OK SO HOW
WILL YOU GET THIS QUESTION
ANSWERED?
>> IT'S HIS TIME TO SPEAK.
IS THIS OK SO SIMPLE YES OR NO
SIMPLE YES OR NO.
OK LET ME JUST MAKE A COUPLE
MORE POINTS.
HERE'S MY SECOND.
IT RELATES TO THE OFT REPEATED
CLAIM OF PLANNING
REPRESENTATIVES THAT THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN IS JUST A
ROADMAP SPECIFIC ZONING CHANGES
WILL COME LATER.
IN OTHER WORDS, DON'T PANIC
RIGHT?
DON'T WORRY ABOUT IT BECAUSE
YOU KNOW THIS IS JUST A GENERAL
PLAN.
HOWEVER, SECTION THREE, THE
MICHIGAN PLANNING ENABLING ACT
SAYS YOU HAVE TO PROVIDE ZONING
RECOMMENDATIONS IN THE PLAN.
INDEED, THE CITY'S NOVEMBER
THOUSAND NINE MASTER PLAN HAS
SPECIFIC ZONING PROPOSALS IN
ALMOST EVERY SECTION THE WORD
ZONING IS USED ONE HUNDRED AND
THIRTY FOUR TIMES IN THE LAND
USE SECTION OF THE MASTER PLAN.
SO WE SHOULD JUST STOP SAYING
THAT AND I'VE HEARD IT SO MANY
TIMES THIS IS JUST OH DON'T
WORRY ABOUT THIS.
IT'S OK.
IT'S JUST GENERAL FINALLY NOW I
SAY THIS WITH RESPECT CHAIRMAN
LEE I THINK YOU SHOULD RECUSE
YOURSELF FROM THESE
CONSIDERATIONS AND I SAY THAT
BECAUSE OF YOUR PREVIOUS
EMPLOYMENT, YOUR CURRENT
EMPLOYMENT.
THANK YOU.
THAT'S TIME WHERE YOU CAN'T BE
ACTIVE AND BALANCED ABOUT THIS
THANK YOU.
AND THAT SAYING I APPRECIATE
ACTIVE AND BALANCED ABOUT THIS
YOUR SERVICE BUT I JUST THINK
AND THAT SAYING I APPRECIATE
IT'S TOO MUCH OF A CONFLICT.
YOUR SERVICE BUT I JUST THINK
>> THANK YOU.
IT'S TOO MUCH OF A CONFLICT.
GOOD EVENING.
>> THANK YOU.
MY NAME IS JEAN LEVERT AND I
GOOD EVENING.
ACTUALLY LIVE IN UPPER WATER
MY NAME IS JEAN LEVERT AND I
HILL WHICH IS BY MACK OPEN AT
ACTUALLY LIVE IN UPPER WATER
MILLER AND PAMONA AND I WAS
HILL WHICH IS BY MACK OPEN AT
SORT OF DRAWN TO TALK TONIGHT
MILLER AND PAMONA AND I WAS
BECAUSE I UNDERSTOOD THAT I
SORT OF DRAWN TO TALK TONIGHT
ALSO WANT TO THANK THE
BECAUSE I UNDERSTOOD THAT I
VOLUNTEERS WHO WHO SERVE ON
ALSO WANT TO THANK THE
THIS BOARD BECAUSE I KNOW IT'S
VOLUNTEERS WHO WHO SERVE ON
A REALLY BIG TIME COMMITMENT
THIS BOARD BECAUSE I KNOW IT'S
AND I DO FEEL LUCKY I HAVE BEEN
A REALLY BIG TIME COMMITMENT
TO I THINK THREE OR FOUR
AND I DO FEEL LUCKY I HAVE BEEN
DIFFERENT PUBLIC ZONING
TO I THINK THREE OR FOUR
CONVERSATIONS.
DIFFERENT PUBLIC ZONING
MOST OF THEM WERE HELD AT THE
CONVERSATIONS.
PUBLIC LIBRARY AND DOWNTOWN AND
MOST OF THEM WERE HELD AT THE
THERE WAS AN EARLY ONE POSSIBLY
PUBLIC LIBRARY AND DOWNTOWN AND
EVEN BEFORE THE PANDEMIC WHERE
THERE WAS AN EARLY ONE POSSIBLY
WE WENT AROUND AND PUT STICKERS
EVEN BEFORE THE PANDEMIC WHERE
ON LIKE WHAT WE WANTED AND WE
WE WENT AROUND AND PUT STICKERS
HAD SMALL GROUP CONVERSATIONS.
ON LIKE WHAT WE WANTED AND WE
AND SO I KNOW THAT THERE HAS
HAD SMALL GROUP CONVERSATIONS.
BEEN GENERALLY LIKE SEVERAL
AND SO I KNOW THAT THERE HAS
YEARS WORTH OF CONVERSATIONS.
BEEN GENERALLY LIKE SEVERAL
I JUST WANT TO KIND OF SAY THAT
YEARS WORTH OF CONVERSATIONS.
AND THEN I JUST WANTED TO TO
I JUST WANT TO KIND OF SAY THAT
SHARE THAT, YOU KNOW, AT LEAST
AND THEN I JUST WANTED TO TO
AND THIS INFORMATION AGAIN
SHARE THAT, YOU KNOW, AT LEAST
BEFORE THE PANDEMIC BUT THAT
AND THIS INFORMATION AGAIN
APPROXIMATELY 80 THOUSAND
BEFORE THE PANDEMIC BUT THAT
PEOPLE COMMUTE TO ANN ARBOR
APPROXIMATELY 80 THOUSAND
EVERY DAY AND JUST ANECDOTALLY
PEOPLE COMMUTE TO ANN ARBOR
YOUNGER PEOPLE I KNOW WHO ARE
EVERY DAY AND JUST ANECDOTALLY
LOOKING TO BUY A HOME ARE OFTEN
YOUNGER PEOPLE I KNOW WHO ARE
PRICED OUT OF ANN ARBOR AND
LOOKING TO BUY A HOME ARE OFTEN
THEY'LL END UP BUYING A HOME IN
PRICED OUT OF ANN ARBOR AND
A NEARBY COMMUNITY AND DRIVING
THEY'LL END UP BUYING A HOME IN
IN AND THEN THAT JUST CREATES
A NEARBY COMMUNITY AND DRIVING
MORE TRAFFIC.
IN AND THEN THAT JUST CREATES
IT'S NOT SUSTAINABLE.
MORE TRAFFIC.
IT JUST THERE ARE PEOPLE WHO
IT'S NOT SUSTAINABLE.
WANT TO LIVE HERE WHO HAVE A
IT JUST THERE ARE PEOPLE WHO
HARD TIME.
WANT TO LIVE HERE WHO HAVE A
I THOUGHT IT MIGHT BE HELPFUL
HARD TIME.
TO TO SHARE A LITTLE BIT
I THOUGHT IT MIGHT BE HELPFUL
OF INFORMATION FROM THAT
TO TO SHARE A LITTLE BIT
RADICAL PUBLICATION THE AARP
OF INFORMATION FROM THAT
WHICH TALKS ABOUT BRING BACK
RADICAL PUBLICATION THE AARP
MIDDLE MISSING HOUSING.
WHICH TALKS ABOUT BRING BACK
RIGHT THAT ZONING OVER THE
MIDDLE MISSING HOUSING.
YEARS HAS ACTUALLY GOTTEN MORE
RIGHT THAT ZONING OVER THE
RESTRICTIVE AND A LOT OF THE
YEARS HAS ACTUALLY GOTTEN MORE
HOUSING TYPES THAT ARE
RESTRICTIVE AND A LOT OF THE
DESCRIBED BY SOME OF THE LOWER
HOUSING TYPES THAT ARE
BYRNE PARK BURNS PARK RESIDENTS
DESCRIBED BY SOME OF THE LOWER
ARE ACTUALLY NOT CURRENTLY
BYRNE PARK BURNS PARK RESIDENTS
ALLOWED TO BE ZONED ANYMORE
ARE ACTUALLY NOT CURRENTLY
RIGHT.
ALLOWED TO BE ZONED ANYMORE
THINGS HAVE GOTTEN MORE
RIGHT.
RESTRICTIVE AND SO ACROSS TO US
THINGS HAVE GOTTEN MORE
THERE SEEMS TO BE A MISMATCH
RESTRICTIVE AND SO ACROSS TO US
BETWEEN AVAILABLE HOUSING STOCK
THERE SEEMS TO BE A MISMATCH
AND WHAT PEOPLE WANT AND NEED
BETWEEN AVAILABLE HOUSING STOCK
AND THIS IS PARTLY DUE TO
AND WHAT PEOPLE WANT AND NEED
SHIFTING DEMOGRAPHICS.
AND THIS IS PARTLY DUE TO
I'M NOT GOING TO READ THE WHOLE
SHIFTING DEMOGRAPHICS.
ARTICLE BUT I JUST KIND OF GOT
I'M NOT GOING TO READ THE WHOLE
HOME FROM WORK.
ARTICLE BUT I JUST KIND OF GOT
I APOLOGIZE, RIGHT.
HOME FROM WORK.
RAPIDLY AGING POPULATION,
I APOLOGIZE, RIGHT.
SHRINKING HOUSEHOLD SIZES AND
RAPIDLY AGING POPULATION,
ALSO A GROWING DEMAND FOR
SHRINKING HOUSEHOLD SIZES AND
WALKABLE LIVING AND THE AARP IS
ALSO A GROWING DEMAND FOR
REALLY INTERESTING BECAUSE THEY
WALKABLE LIVING AND THE AARP IS
TALK ABOUT LIKE HOW DO WE AGE
REALLY INTERESTING BECAUSE THEY
IN PLACE AND HOW DO WE REALLY
TALK ABOUT LIKE HOW DO WE AGE
RECOGNIZE THE NEED FOR ALLOWING
IN PLACE AND HOW DO WE REALLY
FOR LOTS OF DIFFERENT KINDS
RECOGNIZE THE NEED FOR ALLOWING
OF HOUSING?
FOR LOTS OF DIFFERENT KINDS
ONE KIND OF HOUSING MIGHT BE
OF HOUSING?
SMALL APARTMENT BUILDINGS MAYBE
ONE KIND OF HOUSING MIGHT BE
UP TO THREE OR FOUR STORIES.
SMALL APARTMENT BUILDINGS MAYBE
OTHER KINDS OF HOUSING MIGHT BE
UP TO THREE OR FOUR STORIES.
COTTAGE COURTS RIGHT
.
BUT DUPLEXES TOWN HOMES.
RIGHT.
BUT SO CALLED IT'S CALLED
MISSING MIDDLE HOUSING AND THIS
MISSILE MISSING MIDDLE HOUSING
IS A CRITICAL PART OF THE
SOLUTION AND A LOT OF THESE
RESIDENCES ARE DESCRIBED AS
MISSING BECAUSE VERY FEW HAVE
ACTUALLY BEEN BUILT SINCE THE
EARLY 1940S AND SO I WANT TO
COMMEND AND I HAVE TO GO I RUN
A REALLY ENCOURAGE PEOPLE TO
TALK ABOUT THE COMPREHENSIVE
PLAN AND TO KEEP TRYING TO MAKE
FLEXIBLE ZONING SO THAT WE CAN
HAVE MORE PEOPLE ENJOY OUR
NEIGHBORHOODS.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
HELLO.
HI MY NAME IS JOE.
I LIVE ALSO IN LAWFORD'S PARK
AND I WAS A LONG TIME RENTER
AND NOW I'M A LONG TIME
HOMEOWNER.
I'M OLD ENOUGH TO BE BOTH SO
YEAH I'M STILL LEARNING ABOUT
THERE SO I'M GOING TO SAY LIKE
THE PIECE THAT I KNOW AND THEN
WEAR SO I STRONGLY SUPPORT THE
GOALS OF INCREASING
AFFORDABILITY, DIVERSITY
OF RESIDENCE AND HOUSING
OPTIONS AND ENVIRONMENTAL
SUSTAINABILITY.
CHECK PLUS ON ALL THREE AND I
ALSO BELIEVE FROM WHAT I'VE
LEARNED SO FAR THAT INCREASING
DENSITY COULD PLAY A ROLE IN
THIS LARGER VISION FOR
REALIZING THOSE ASPIRATIONS.
BUT I DON'T REALLY SEE AND I'M
NOT AN EXPERT HERE HOW LIKE A
RIGHT NOW IS LEADING TO BE SO
LIKE THERE'S LIKE WHAT WE'RE
GOING TO DO AND THIS IS THE
EFFECT WE HOPE IT HAS.
AND HERE ARE SOME BEAUTIFUL
PICTURES OF MIDDLE HAS LITTLE
HOUSING AND STUFF AND I FEEL
LIKE IT'S A VERY KIND OF RIGHT
NOW A VERY BLANKET DEREGULATION
FEELS LIKE FROM MY PERSPECTIVE
AND SO I SAID I DON'T SUPPORT
THE ABSENTING IN ITS CURRENT
FORM BECAUSE I JUST BELIEVE
MORE GUIDES AND REGULATIONS ARE
NEEDED TO ENSURE THAT
INCREASING DENSITY DOES DELIVER
THESE SOCIAL GOODS AND THAT IT
ALSO DOES SO IN A WAY THAT
MINIMIZES UNINTENDED NEGATIVE
CONSEQUENCES, SOMETHING THAT
DOES NOT NEED TO HAPPEN MAKE
THINGS THAT DON'T NEED TO
HAPPEN.
SO GIVEN THIS WHENEVER THEY ASK
RIGHT NOW IT'S JUST TO GIVE
EACH NEIGHBORHOOD WITH
RESIDENTS ACROSS THE SUPPORT
SPECTRUM BECAUSE IN OUR
NEIGHBORHOOD WE'RE HAVING
ROBUST DEBATES AND PEOPLE ARE
ALL OVER AT AN OPPORTUNITY TO
FIND SOME COMMON GROUND AND TO
CUSTOMIZE WHAT FEELS RIGHT NOW
LIKE A ONE SIZE FITS ALL
TEMPLATE TO THE SPECIFIC SORT
OF LIKE NEEDS AND ASPIRATIONS
CONCERNS OF EACH NEIGHBORHOOD
COMMUNITY.
THANK YOU.
>> WELL, GOOD EVENING.
MY NAME IS CONNOR REYNOLDS AND
I LIVE AT ELEVEN AWAY AT
BROOKLYN AVENUE AND MY WIFE AND
KID LIVE THERE AS WELL.
WE'VE BEEN HOMEOWNERS THERE FOR
A LITTLE OVER TWO YEARS AND
ALREADY I CAN TELL YOU THAT IF
WE WERE LOOKING TO BUY NOW WE
WOULD NOT BE ABLE TO BUY OUR
HOUSE.
THE PRICES HAVE GONE UP SO, SO
MUCH I WOULD SUPPORT THE
REZONING ATTEMPT AND ALSO I
SUPPORT THE FACT THAT IT'S CITY
WIDE.
I THINK THAT ANY NEIGHBORHOOD
WOULD COME UP WITH REASONS WHY
THEY SHOULD NOT GET RID
OF SINGLE FAMILY ZONING IN
THEIR NEIGHBORHOOD AND BY
MAKING IT CITY WIDE THAT
SPREADS THE IMPACT OUT ACROSS
THE CITY.
IT DOESN'T JUST CONCENTRATE ON
ONE NEIGHBORHOOD ALSO I.
I HONESTLY THINK THAT THE
IMPACT OF IT IS PROBABLY
ACTUALLY NOT GOING TO BE THAT
GREAT UNLESS THERE'S ADDITIONAL
STEPS TAKEN BY THE CITY.
SO THE OTHER THING I WOULD
REALLY URGE IS THAT IN ADDITION
TO REZONING Y'ALL MAY ALREADY
BE DOING THIS.
YOU'RE EXPERTS THAT YOU ALSO
PUT IN PLACE CHANGES THAT
INCENTIVIZE CERTAIN TYPES
OF BUILDING AND MISSING MIDDLE
HOUSING GENERALLY SO THAT WE
DON'T JUST GET THIS DONUT HOLE
WHERE WE HAVE SINGLE FAMILY
HOMES WHICH ARE THE CHEAPEST TO
BUILD PER SQUARE FOOT OF ANY
TYPE OF HOUSING RIGHT NOW AND
LARGE APARTMENT BUILDINGS.
I THINK THAT IT'S REALLY
CRITICAL TO LOOK AT WHAT THE
BUILDING CODE IS IS MAKING IT
SO THAT THAT IS THE CASE.
AND THERE ARE A FEW THINGS THAT
HAVE ALREADY BEEN POINTED OUT
BY ORGANIZATIONS AROUND THE
COUNTRY THE SINGLE USING A
SINGLE STAIRCASE FOR BUILDINGS
UP TO SIX STOREYS IS ONE
EXAMPLE I ACTUALLY SAW THAT IN
MEMPHIS MADE IT SO THAT
BUILDINGS THREE TO SIX UNITS
ARE NOW APPLICABLE TO BE BUILT
UNDER THE RESIDENTIAL
CODE RATHER THAN THE COMMERCIAL
CODE WHICH ALLOWS THEM TO NOT
HAVE SPRINKLER SYSTEMS WHICH
WOULD KIND OF GO AGAINST THE
SINGLE STAIRCASE MODEL.
BUT I THINK HAVING AN EITHER OR
WOULD BE A GOOD IDEA HERE IN
ANN ARBOR I REALIZE THAT THE
CITY ITSELF CAN'T NECESSARILY
DO THESE THINGS BUT ADVOCATING
AT THE STATE LEVEL WILL BE
REALLY HELPFUL AND THEN ALSO
IT'S THINGS THE CITY COULD DO
LIKE I KNOW SOUTH BEND, INDIANA
HAS PREAPPROVED BUILDING PLANS
THAT DEVELOPERS CAN USE TO
BUILD ON LOTS AND I THINK ANN
ARBOR IF IT'S SERIOUS ABOUT
MAKING THESE TYPES OF HOUSING
ACTUALLY GO INTO NEIGHBORHOODS
SHOULD SUPPLY SIMILAR THING FOR
THE MISSING MIDDLE HOUSING
TYPES.
AND NOT ONLY THAT BUT MAYBE
ALSO THAT WOULD ALLEVIATE SOME
OF THIS SET OF CONCERNS THAT
PEOPLE HAVE AND FINALLY YEAH, I
FORGOT THE REST OF IT.
>> I DIDN'T WRITE ANYTHING
DOWN.
I HAVE A GOOD EVENING.
THANKS.
THANK YOU.
WELCOME.
HELLO MY I GOT INVOLVED
RECENTLY WITH THE BROCKMANN
TREE PRESERVATION PROJECT
BECAUSE I WALK ON BROCKMANN ALL
THE TIME.
LET ME TELL YOU A STORY ABOUT
CYO TOWNSHIP IN 1988 THERE WAS
A I MOVED THERE AND THERE WAS
VAST OVERDEVELOPMENT GOING AND
WE SAW THAT AND WE ORGANIZE
REAL WELL AND WE TOOK OVER THE
TOWNSHIP WITH FOUR TRUSTEES AND
WE CHANGED THE DEVELOPMENT
DIRECTION OF SAYO TOWNSHIP
QUITE WELL AND HERE IN ANN
ARBOR I REALLY DO SUPPORT THE
CONCEPT OF ZONING.
I SUPPORT MAYOR AND COUNCIL BUT
AND PEOPLE PEOPLE WHO COME TO
ME AGHAST ABOUT THIS BUILDING
HUGE BUILDINGS DOWNTOWN I WOULD
TELL WELL THEY'VE GOT CONTROL
OF IT.
>> THEY'RE JUST GOING TO KEEP
IT DOWNTOWN EXCEPT NOW IT'S NOT
JUST BEING KEPT DOWNTOWN NOW
IT'S METASTASIZE THING ALL OVER
TOWN PEOPLE HAVE GOT TO SEE
WHAT IS PLANNED OR WHERE THEY
LIVE IN THEIR OWN NEIGHBORHOOD
AND IT'S NOT BEING DONE IN THE
INTERESTS OF ANYONE WHO LIVES
IN ANN ARBOR AT THIS TIME, IS
IT?
IT'S BEING DONE IN THE INTEREST
OF PEOPLE WHO MIGHT COME HERE
SOME TIME.
THAT'S THE VOTERS ARE NOT GOING
TO VOTE YES FOR THAT.
>> NOTHING HERE IS FOR THE
BENEFIT PEOPLE WHO ARE HERE NOW
AND YOU MUST ADMIT THAT NO TOWN
HAS EVER BUILT ITS WAY OUT
OF BEING POPULAR AND HIGH RENT
NO TOWN EVER OK, THE GREAT
BENEFITS HERE THIS IS THE
PRIVATE EQUITY CAPITAL THAT IS
DOING THE INVESTING.
EVERYBODY KNOW BY THE PEOPLE
KNOW THAT NOT OUR VOTERS.
THEY'RE NOT BENEFITING FROM
THIS AT ALL.
MY MAIN CONCERN IS THAT THIS
ZONING WILL KILL OFF A HUGE
AMOUNT OF BIG TREES.
PEOPLE MIGHT JUST START CUTTING
THEM DOWN IF THEY HEAR SOMEONE
TALKING ABOUT IT BECAUSE ANN
HARBOR DOESN'T HAVE A
REGULATORY A REAL TREE
ORDINANCE.
>> WE'VE EITHER GOT TO HAVE A
REAL TREE ORDINANCE LIKE
EVANSTON, ILLINOIS OR THIS
CAN'T HAPPEN AND WE'VE GOT TO
HAVE THIS HAPPEN AFTER AN
ELECTION WHERE THE CITY COUNCIL
HAS BASED ITS LEGITIMACY ON
THIS PLAN AND PEOPLE GET TO
VOTE ON CITY COUNCIL MEMBERS
BASED ON THEIR POSITION ON THIS
PLAN AND THEN WE'LL SEE THIS
PLAN GO DOWN IN FLAMES AND A
SOME SORT OF A REASONABLE
CONCEPT OF ZONING EMERGE FROM
THAT.
HOPEFULLY SO YEAH, IT'S ABSURD
FOR ME TO RUN FOR CITY COUNCIL
BUT I ENCOURAGE PEOPLE WHO
REALLY BELIEVE IN THE CHARACTER
OF THIS TOWN TO RUN FOR CITY
COUNCIL.
>> WE'VE GOT TO SLOW THIS DOWN.
PEOPLE ON COUNCIL HAVE TO TAKE
RESPONSIBILITY FOR THIS AND IT
CAN'T HAPPEN UNTIL AFTER AN
ELECTION.
THOSE TREES ON BRACKMAN HAD
BETTER STAY THERE AND I THINK
THAT THEY WILL.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
WELCOME.
HI.
MY NAME'S URSULA NELA JOY AND
PUBLIC BEACON'S NOT MY POINT
BUT I WANT TO LET YOU KNOW THAT
THE OTHER AND OUR CITIZENS HERE
THAT SEEM TO KNOW A LOT MORE
ABOUT THE SITUATION OF THE
DRAMATIC DEVELOPMENTS THAT'S
BEEN HAPPENING, I ABSOLUTELY
ECHO THEIR CONCERNS.
I CAME BACK TO CARE FOR MY MOM
WHO IS A PROFESSOR OF EDUCATION
AND SHE WAS I WAS HELPING HER
AT THE END OF HER LIFE AND MY
UNDERSTANDING IS THAT IT WAS
TOO EXPENSIVE SO SHE HAD TO
ACTUALLY DO THE LAST FEW WEEKS
OF HER LIFE IN FENTHION BECAUSE
WAS TOO EXPENSIVE HERE FOR HER
TO LIVE AND I WANTED TO LET YOU
KNOW THAT MY FATHER WAS A
COUNTY COMMISSIONER FOR
THIRTEEN YEARS, RAYMOND GEORGE
SHULTZ AND HE HELPED BEAUTIFY
THE ART TRAIN AREA ALONG THE
HURON RIVER.
I WENT TO COMMUNITY HIGH SCHOOL
AND AND WHEN I CAME BACK TO BE
WITH MY MOM I'M LIKE OH WOW,
WE'RE MOVING UP MY LITTLE AND
OUR TOWN IS YOU KNOW,
UNDERSTANDABLY PEOPLE WANT TO
LIVE HERE.
BUT THIS MEETING HAPPENED JUST
A FEW DAYS AFTER I HAD THIS
IDEA OF WELL I THINK OF THE
SQUIRRELS AS MY NEIGHBORS AND
AND THERE'S A LOT OF CRITTERS
THAT I THINK ABOUT THE ANIMALS,
THE HUMANS HERE AS KIND
OF CRITTERS AND THE MICHIGAN
WOODS AND THEN THERE'S THE
WOODCHUCKS AND THERE'S THE
POSSUMS.
THEY FIND PLACES IN THESE
NEIGHBORHOODS TO LIVE TO EKE
OUT SOMETHING AND SOMETIMES IT
GETS A LITTLE TIGHT BETWEEN THE
HUMANS AND THE CRITTERS.
BUT I'M CONCERNED WITH ALL THE
HIGH RISES.
IS THERE A PLAN FOR EITHER TO
ESCORT THEM OUT SOMEHOW TO TAKE
THEM OUT OR
WHERE WILL THEY GO?
THEY'LL JUST IT JUST IT GETS A
LITTLE BIT FRANTIC.
THERE'S NOT ENOUGH ROOM AND NOT
ENOUGH FOR AFFORDABLE HOUSING
FOR ME.
SO I'M I'M LOOKING NOW THAT MY
MOTHER'S DIED THAT IT'S TIME I
NEED TO GO BECAUSE I'VE LOOKED
AROUND I DO A HOME HEALTH AIDE.
>> I TAKE CARE OF LITTLE OLD
LADIES AT THE END OF THEIR
LIVES AND A THOUSAND DOLLARS IS
A LOT OF MONEY PER MONTH FOR ME
TO PAY FOR A STUDIO.
SO I NEED TO GO BACK WHERE JUST
I DON'T NEED TO FIND SOME OTHER
PLACES THAT WILL WORK FOR ME
RIGHT NOW I'M AT THE ANN ARBOR
ZEN BUDDHIST TEMPLE AND THAT'S
BEEN REALLY GOOD BUT IT'S TIME
TO FIND MY OWN SPOT AND SO I'M
NOT GOING TO BE ABLE TO STAY IN
ANN ARBOR AND THAT'S ONE OF THE
REASONS IS JUST IT'S NOT IT'S
NOT AFFORDABLE AND IT'S TOO BAD
I STILL ENJOY THE BACK ROADS
WITH THE TREE CANOPIES.
SO THANK YOU.
THANK YOU GORGEOUS.
I LIVE AT 11:00 HENRY SINCE
THEY ARE TWO THOUSAND SO ABOUT
TWENTY FIVE YEARS I'VE WORKED
IN THE CITY SINCE NINETEEN
NINETY THREE SO UNTIL THIS
PROGRESSIVE KIND OF EYE OPENER
STARTED HAPPENING RECENTLY I
GUESS I TOOK IT FOR GRANTED THE
CITY FOR GRANTED IN SOME WAYS
SO NOW IT'S KIND OF ON MY RADAR
THESE CHANGES THAT ARE BEING
PROPOSED I KNOW THE MASTER PLAN
HAS BEEN AROUND SINCE TWENTY
NINE AND SO BEING AT ELEVEN
SIXTEEN HENRY MET IN THE LOWER
BERN'S PARK WHICH A LOT OF A
LOT OF MY NEIGHBORS ARE HERE
AND SO WHAT I SAW THE MASTER
PLAN AND I DON'T KNOW I GUESS
I'VE MISSED SOME OF THIS
BECAUSE I STAY BUSY AND SO I
HAVE MIXED FEELINGS BECAUSE I
WORK IN CIVIL ENGINEERING AND
SURVEYING SO IT COULD ALSO
BRING ME WORK SOME OF THESE
CHANGES I THOUGHT WE WERE STILL
GOING TO BE ZONED SINGLE FAMILY
IN THAT TWENTY NINE.
IT WAS IT WAS KIND OF GRAY I
THOUGHT THAT LOW WHO WAS
SUPPOSED TO KIND OF KEEP THE
SINGLE FAMILY ZONING UNTIL
TWENTY TWENTY FOUR TWENTY
TWENTY FIVE.
DID SOMETHING CHANGE I GUESS
THAT I MISSED BECAUSE THAT MAP
KIND OF SAID THAT IT WAS GOING
TO STAY THAT WAY SO I DON'T I
CAN'T ANSWER THESE QUESTIONS
RIGHT NOW.
YOU'RE GOING TO MY CONCERN IS
MORE WITH IF IT JUST BECOMES
ALL MIXED USE IN OTHER PARTS
OF THE NEIGHBORHOODS WE'RE KIND
OF GOING IN REVERSE BECAUSE IT
WAS I THINK IT WAS 2006 IS WHEN
WE GOT THE SINGLE FAMILY ZONING
CHANGE THAT A LOT OF PEOPLE
HERE ACTUALLY WORKED TO GET
THAT BECAUSE OF THAT SCHOOLS IN
THE NICE NEIGHBORHOOD WHERE YOU
CAN WALK AND HAVE RAISED
FAMILIES.
SO I JUST I JUST HOPE IT
DOESN'T COVER THE WHOLE
NEIGHBORHOOD AGAIN AS MIXED-USE
BECAUSE I WORRY ABOUT LANDLORDS
THAT ARE FROM OUT OF STATE OR
FROM THE CITY THAT AREN'T VERY
RECEPTIVE TO COMPLAINTS OR
CONCERNS OF NEIGHBORS THAT ARE
SINGLE FAMILY OR SMALL
DWELLINGS OR SMALL UNITS SIZES
.
AND I HAVE EXAMPLES I HAVE SOME
FRIENDS THAT LIVE IN THE
NEIGHBORHOOD.
THEY HAD NEIGHBORS THAT WERE
LANDLORDS THAT WERE
GRANDFATHERED IN.
THEY REPAVE THE DRIVEWAY TWO OR
THREE FEET ONTO THEIR PROPERTY,
CHANGE THE DRAINAGE SO IT ALL
DRAIN TOWARD THEIR BASEMENT AND
WE SURVEYED THE PROPERTY LINE
AND THE LANDLORD IN FLORIDA OR
WHATEVER STATE THEY WERE IN HAD
THEIR ATTORNEY WRITE A LETTER
THAT SAID WELL IF YOU TRY TO
YOU KNOW, MARK OUT THE PROPERTY
LINE, YOU'RE INFRINGING ON MY
RIGHTS THAT THAT WAS THEY WERE
JUST CONCERNED ABOUT THAT THEY
WERE GOING TO HAVE TO FIX THE
DRIVEWAY THAT WAS JUST PAVED IN
THAT THE NEIGHBOR THAT WAS A
SINGLE RESIDENT THAT LIVED AND
WORKED IN ANN ARBOR.
SO I JUST HOPE TO TAKE THE
CONCERNS OF , YOU KNOW, THE
POTENTIAL DOWNSTREAM EFFECT
OF ALL OF IT.
>> SO THANK YOU.
THANKS FOR JOINING ME.
THANK YOU.
GOOD EVENING.
I'M ELLEN RAMSBURG.
I LIVE AT FIFTY THREE CAMBRIDGE
ROAD.
>> I WANT TO START OFF BY
SAYING THAT I THINK WE ALL
WOULD LIKE AFFORDABILITY,
SUSTAINABILITY AND EQUITY TO BE
PART OF THIS PLAN.
I JUST WANT TO KNOW WHETHER THE
EXAMPLES ARE CONCRETE.
WHAT IS ACTUALLY HAPPENING NOW
IS ACTUALLY GIVING US THOSE
VALUES.
AND I'M GOING TO GO BACK TO THE
IN THE EXAMPLE OF NORTH PART
NEIGHBORHOOD WHERE A SINGLE
FAMILY HOME IN AN HOUR TO
NEIGHBORHOOD WAS DEMOLISHED
UNBEKNOWNST TO NEIGHBORS VERY
LITTLE TRANSPARENCY IN THIS
CHANGE IN THE UDC THE REQUIRED
MINIMUM LOT SIZE FOR A DUPLEX
HAVE BEEN CHANGED.
AND SO INSTEAD OF THE EXPECTED
POSSIBLE DUPLEX REPLACEMENT WE
WERE WE WERE FACED WITH TWO
DUPLEXES SO FOUR UNITS ON THE
SINGLE FAMILY ORIGINAL TO A
ZONED LOT.
SO THE FIRST THING WAS TO GO
WITH THE TREES WHICH WERE
CONSIDERABLE SIX MATURE TREES
AND TWO HUGE MAPLES.
THEN AFTER THE TREES WENT THE
ENTIRE STRUCTURE WAS
DEMOLISHED.
THE OLD HOUSE STONE FOUNDATIONS
ALL WENT TO THE LANDFILL.
WE ASKED THE DEVELOPER IF HE
WAS GOING TO HAVE ANY OF IT
RECYCLED AND HE SAID NO HE DID
NOT.
>> HE DIDN'T HAVE ANY BUYERS
FOR THE RECYCLING SO IT WAS ALL
GOING TO THE LANDFILL.
SO MY QUESTION IS IS THIS
SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT?
DO WE TAKE INTO EQUATION WHAT
GOES TO THE LANDFILL WHEN THESE
HOUSES ARE REPLACED?
SO NOW THE LOT IS FILLED WITH
TOO LARGE HOUSES FOR UNITS WITH
FOUR BEDROOMS EACH FIVE
BATHROOMS EACH RUNNING AT
FIFTEEN HUNDRED A BEDROOM AND A
PARKING LOT.
SO 80 PERCENT IMPERVIOUS
SURFACES AND NO TREES ANY
LONGER.
SO IS THIS AFFORDABLE?
IS IT IS IT SUSTAINABLE AND IS
IT EQUITABLE SO THE TWEEK TO UP
SELL IN THIS NEIGHBORHOOD
REDUCE THE VALUE OF NEARBY
HOMES AS FAMILY HOMES, AS OWNER
OCCUPIED FAMILIES WITH POSSIBLY
CHILDREN ET CETERA AND IT HAS
INCREASED THE VALUE OF THOSE
NEARBY HOMES AS SPECULATIVE
HOMES FOR DEMOLITION
MODIFICATION FOR HIGHER MARKET
RATE RENTAL UNITS.
>> I'M NOT SURE THAT MEETS THE
GOALS OF AFFORDABILITY,
SUSTAINABILITY AND EQUITY.
>> AND I THINK TONIGHT YOU'RE
HEARING FROM PEOPLE WHO HAVE
WHO SHARE THAT CONCERN THAT YOU
ARE NOT HAVE NOT THUS FAR WHAT
WE'VE SEEN FROM THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN HAS NOT
TAKEN A BROAD PICTURE
OF RESIDENTS WHO LIVE IN ANN
ARBOR, RESIDENTS WHO ARE
CONCERNED ABOUT THE NEGATIVE
IMPACTS THAT THIS PLAN MIGHT
HAVE.
I HAVE SOME THANK YOU
.
YES, SURE.
>> IF YOU CAN WANT TO GIVE ME
YEAH.
HAPPY BACKYARD.
THANK YOU.
I APPRECIATE IT.
THANK YOU SO MUCH.
WELCOME.
HI.
HELLO.
WHEN I WAS FIRST SITTING DOWN I
HI.
WAS THINKING ABOUT SEEING SOME
WHEN I WAS FIRST SITTING DOWN I
ANGRY THINGS BUT I'LL THERE'S
WAS THINKING ABOUT SEEING SOME
BEEN ENOUGH OF THAT SO I THINK
ANGRY THINGS BUT I'LL THERE'S
THAT YES.
BEEN ENOUGH OF THAT SO I THINK
>> OH YEAH SORRY MATE MY NAME
THAT YES.
IS JIM.
>> OH YEAH SORRY MATE MY NAME
I LIVE IN THE FIFTH WARD.
IS JIM.
>> I'VE LIVED HERE FOR A
I LIVE IN THE FIFTH WARD.
MILLION YEARS AND I THINK THAT
>> I'VE LIVED HERE FOR A
A LOT OF THE CONCERNS HERE
MILLION YEARS AND I THINK THAT
SOUND TO ME MORE LIKE CONCERNS
A LOT OF THE CONCERNS HERE
ABOUT CAPITALISM AND I AGREE
SOUND TO ME MORE LIKE CONCERNS
THAT I I THINK WE NEED TO WORK
ABOUT CAPITALISM AND I AGREE
ON REPLACING CAPITALISM WITH A
THAT I I THINK WE NEED TO WORK
WITH A BETTER MORE EQUITABLE
ON REPLACING CAPITALISM WITH A
MORE EGALITARIAN ECONOMIC
WITH A BETTER MORE EQUITABLE
SYSTEM.
MORE EGALITARIAN ECONOMIC
BUT I DON'T THINK THAT THE
SYSTEM.
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN IS GOING TO
BUT I DON'T THINK THAT THE
DO THAT.
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN IS GOING TO
SO I DON'T WANT YOU ALL TO FEEL
DO THAT.
WEIGHED DOWN BY THE NEED TO
SO I DON'T WANT YOU ALL TO FEEL
OVERTURN CAPITALISM AS YOU AS
WEIGHED DOWN BY THE NEED TO
YOU PREPARE THE COMPREHENSIVE
OVERTURN CAPITALISM AS YOU AS
PLAN AND OTHER THAN THAT, I'D
YOU PREPARE THE COMPREHENSIVE
JUST LIKE TO SAY THAT THAT I
PLAN AND OTHER THAN THAT, I'D
SUPPORT MAKING THE
JUST LIKE TO SAY THAT THAT I
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN FOR LAND USE
SUPPORT MAKING THE
HERE IN ANN ARBOR AS FRIENDLY
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN FOR LAND USE
AS POSSIBLE TO EVERY TYPE
HERE IN ANN ARBOR AS FRIENDLY
OF HOUSING KNOWN TO HUMANITY.
AS POSSIBLE TO EVERY TYPE
AND THAT'S ALL.
OF HOUSING KNOWN TO HUMANITY.
THANKS FOR YOUR EFFORTS.
AND THAT'S ALL.
THANK
WELCOME.
>> GOOD EVENING.
KIRK WESTFALL THIRTY FIVE OR
FIVE CHARTER PLACE WORD TWO.
THANKS SO MUCH AGAIN FOR YOUR
HARD WORK ON THE COMPREHENSIVE
PLAN SO FAR PARTICULARLY FOLKS
WHO ARE SERVING ON THE
SUBCOMMITTEE AND THE STEERING
COMMITTEE.
I APPRECIATE THE STRONG
FEEDBACK YOU'VE GIVEN TO DATE.
I AGREE THAT WE SHOULD BE
SKEPTICAL OF PROPOSALS THAT
CONDITION HOUSING CONSTRUCTION
ON THE CONSTRUCTION OF OTHER
USES LIKE OFFICE AND RETAIL.
I APPRECIATE YOU REJECTING THE
PROPOSAL TO ALLOW OUR MOST CAR
DEPENDENT AREAS LIKE ARBOR
LAND, WEST GATE AND VILLAGE TO
GET A NEW LEASE ON LIFE STRIP
MALLS FOR THE NEXT 50 YEARS.
EXMOOR DOES NOT DO MIXED USE.
THEY ARE NOT OUR FRIEND.
I APPRECIATE THAT YOU OBJECTED
TO THE CONSULTANT CONTINUING TO
TALK ABOUT A THIRTY FIVE FOOT
HEIGHT LIMIT WHEN YOU GAVE
CLEAR DIRECTION AT FORTY EIGHT
FEET SHOULD BE CONSIDERED AND
I'M DISAPPOINTED THAT FOLKS
HAVE SPREAD MISINFORMATION THAT
YOU'VE PROPOSED SOME FORM
OF SETBACK OR LIMITING SETBACKS
OR EVEN ELIMINATING SINGLE
FAMILY HOMES.
THERE ARE PLENTY OF WAYS THAT
CITY COUNCIL CAN ACCOMMODATE
SHADING ON NEIGHBORS AND PLENTY
OF CITIES DO THIS.
I URGE YOU TO CONSIDER THE
DRAFT PLAN.
YOU'LL BE GETTING BACK THROUGH
THE LENS OF HOUSING ABUNDANCE.
TO ME HOUSING ABUNDANCE MEANS
THAT UNLESS YOU CAN JUSTIFY A
REASON TO LIMIT HOUSING, THE
ASSUMPTION SHOULD BE THAT YOU
DON'T LIMIT HOUSING.
WE KNOW FROM THE EXPERIENCE
OF OTHER CITIES THAT VERY
LITTLE IF ANY CHANGE WILL
HAPPEN IN OWNER OCCUPIED
RESIDENTIAL AREAS EVEN IF YOU
ALLOW OR ALLOW LARGER BUILDINGS
EVEN IN COMMERCIAL
AREAS AS WE
CAN SEE IT TAKES YEARS OR
DECADES TO REDEVELOP
PROPERTIES.
WHAT REMAINS MY PRIMARY CONCERN
RIGHT NOW IS THAT THE
CONSULTANT IS PROPOSING
EFFECTIVELY FREEZING DOWNTOWN
IN PLACE EVEN IN PLACES WHERE
NEW HOUSING HAS BEEN APPROVED.
THEY'RE DOING THIS BY PLACING
AN 80 FOOT HEIGHT LIMIT IN THE
SO-CALLED TRANSITION ZONE.
THIS IS A ZONE THAT ALREADY
TAPERS ITS HEIGHT DOWN TO OUR
ONE IN OUR TWO DISTRICTS.
WHY DOES THIS ZONE NEED TO BE
KEPT?
THE PROPOSALS FOR TRANSITION
HAVE INEXPLICABLY BOUNCED
AROUND FROM ONE HUNDRED TWENTY
FEET TO 80 FEET.
BUT IF IT STAYS AT 80 FEET IT
WILL MAKE BUILDINGS LIKE FIVE
CORNERS AND BEEKMAN INSTANTLY
NONCONFORMING AND PREVENT MORE
HIGH RISES NEAR THEM RIGHT
WHERE PEOPLE WANT TO LIVE AND
WHERE BUILDERS ARE BUILDING.
SO I ASK YOU TO WHEN YOU GET
THIS DRAFT BACK CONSIDER THE
HEIGHTS OF THE TRANSITION ZONE.
CONSIDER IT NEEDS IT AT ALL AND
TO STRIVE FOR HOUSING
ABUNDANCE.
>> THANK THANK YOU.
>> WELCOME.
THANK YOU.
GOOD EVENING.
MY NAME IS SCOTT TRUDEAU AND I
AM HERE RIGHT NOW TO SPEAK AS A
RESIDENT OF A NEIGHBORHOOD THAT
IS I JUST LIVE ABOUT A COUPLE
DOZEN FEET OUTSIDE OF DOWNTOWN.
IT'S ALSO LOTS OF STUDENT
RENTERS, A LOT OF PRESSURE FROM
THE UNIVERSITY FOR HOUSING AND
DEVELOPERS WHO WANT TO DEVELOP
OVERPAID FOR MY HOUSE TEN YEARS
AGO WHEN I COULDN'T AFFORD IT
TODAY AND MANY OF MY NEIGHBORS
ARE STUDENT RENTERS AND I TALK
TO A LOT OF THEM AND I WATCH
THE REAL ESTATE LISTINGS AND I
KIND OF SEE WHAT'S HAPPENING
AROUND THE NEIGHBORHOOD AND A
LOT OF THEM WOULD BE HAPPY TO
PAY FIFTEEN HUNDRED DOLLARS A
MONTH FOR A BEDROOM AND NEW
CONSTRUCTION WITH WORKING AIR
CONDITIONING AND NO MOLD AND NO
LEAD PAINT AND HAS IS
ACCESSIBLE WITH AN ELEVATOR AND
DON'T HAVE TO CLIMB MULTIPLE
FLOORS OF STAIRS.
THE RENTALS IN THE OLD DECREPIT
HOUSES ACROSS THE STREET FOR ME
RENT FOR THIRTEEN FOURTEEN
HUNDRED DOLLARS A MONTH FOR A
BEDROOM.
SO THIS NEW CONSTRUCTION IS
DESPERATELY NEEDED AND THERE'S
A REASON DEVELOPERS ARE ABLE TO
BUILD IT AND GET THOSE GET
THOSE RENTS.
AND SO IF WE DENY THAT AND
STUDENTS WILL PAY INCREASINGLY
MORE FOR INCREASINGLY WORSE
RENTAL OPTIONS AS UNIVERSITY
GROWS AND I'VE NOTICED IN MY
NEIGHBORHOOD MORE AND MORE
OF THE OWNER OCCUPIED HOUSES
HAVE BEEN PURCHASED BY
INVESTORS WHO RECOGNIZE THAT
THE RENTS ARE JUST UP OFF THE
CHAIN AND ARE CONVERTING THEM
TO RENTALS.
AND I'VE DONE THE MATH SO LIKE
WHAT IF A DEVELOPER MULTIPLE
PROPERTIES WITH THE AIR FORCES
ZONING AND TRIED TO REDEVELOP
SOMETHING NICER AND IT DOESN'T
WORK?
NONE OF THESE PROPERTIES
CONFORM AND SO THEY ALL HAVE
WAY MORE UNITS AND YOU COULD
BUILD LEGALLY NOW IF WE TORE
THEM DOWN WE WOULD HAVE LESS
UNITS THAN WHAT WE COULD BUILD
NOW.
SO WE NEED WE NEED NEW ZONING.
WE NEED TO UPDATE IT AND I
THINK THE DIRECTION OF THIS
PLAN IS GREAT.
I THINK IT'S INCREMENTAL AND I
THINK THE ENGAGEMENT HAS BEEN
EXTENSIVE INCLUDING THE INPUT
YOUR AMPLE INPUT YOU'VE BEEN
RECEIVING TONIGHT AND HAS BEEN
OVER THE LAST YEAR AND WE'LL
CONTINUE TO BE SO UNTIL IT
PASSES AND A LOT OF THE DETAILS
THAT PEOPLE ARE CONCERNED ABOUT
IS FORTY EIGHT FEET FEATURED.
WHAT'S THIS ABOUT THOUGH
THAT'LL BE SORTED OUT IN THE
ORDINANCE?
THE PLAN SHOULD BE SIMPLE.
THE PLAN SHOULD SET A DIRECTION
.
THE PLAN SHOULD SET THE
EXPECTATIONS FOR WHAT THE
BOUNDARIES ARE AND THEN WE'LL
WRESTLE WITH THOSE DETAILS AS
WE BEGIN TO IMPLEMENT.
SO KEEP DOING UP THE GOOD WORK.
THANK YOU FOR ALL THE HARD WORK
YOU'VE ALL PUT INTO THIS AND
EVERYBODY HAS VOLUNTEERED ON
THE VARIOUS COMMITTEES.
STICK TO THE BIG PICTURE AND I
LOOK FORWARD TO KIND OF SEEING
THIS MOVE FORWARD.
>> SO THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
>> DO WE HAVE ANYONE ELSE
PRESENT I'D LIKE TO SPEAK AT
THIS TIME
.
>> THANK YOU CHARLIE PLANNING
COMMISSION.
THANK YOU FOR YOUR HARD WORK ON
THE PLAN.
I'M KEN GARBER LIVE AT TWENTY
EIGHT HARRISVILLE COURT.
I'M A RENTER AND A CLIMATE
ACTIVIST.
I LOOK LITERALLY EVERYTHING IN
MY LIFE IN TERMS OF CARBON
EMISSIONS WHICH IS A VERY
DEPRESSING WAY TO LIVE
ESPECIALLY NOW BUT THAT IS MY
GENERAL OUTLOOK ON LIFE.
THE PLAN TODAY WHAT I'VE READ
ABOUT CARBON EMISSIONS IS QUOTE
REDUCE CARBON EMISSIONS THROUGH
THE EFFICIENT USE OF LAND,
BUILDINGS AND INFRASTRUCTURE.
>> I CAN'T ARGUE WITH THAT
CANNOT BUT THERE'S NO MENTION
OF FOSSIL FUEL COMBUSTION
BUILDINGS ACCOUNT FOR ALMOST 70
PERCENT OF THE CITY'S COAL ONE
AND TWO EMISSIONS WITH FOSSIL
GAS COMBUSTION MAKING UP MOST
OF THAT.
THE COMPLAINT DOCUMENTS NOTE
THAT DENSITY REDUCES COMMUTER
EMISSIONS.
THAT'S TRUE AND NECESSARY BUT
THE GAINS ARE A FRACTION
OF WHAT YOU GET BY AVOIDING
FOSSIL GAS.
IMAGINE A NEW HUNDRED UNIT
APARTMENT COMPLEX.
IT PREVENTS ONE HUNDRED COMMUTE
AT AVERAGE DAILY COMMUTE
OF NINETEEN POINT THREE MILES.
THAT BUILDING WILL ELIMINATE
FIVE HUNDRED AND TWO THOUSAND
MILES OF DRIVING A YEAR WHICH
IS GREAT.
BUT IF THOSE APARTMENTS BURN
FOSSIL GAS FOR HEAT THEY'LL SIX
HUNDRED AND EIGHTY NINE METRIC
TONS OF CO2 A YEAR MORE THAN
THREE TIMES THE CO2 YOU'RE
SAVING IN VEHICLE EMISSIONS BY
ENDING THOSE COMMUTES THE PLAN
SHOULD INCLUDE BOTH.
AS OF NOW IT SEEMS TO BE ALL
ABOUT REDUCING VEHICLE MILES
TRAVELED.
I'VE SEEN NOTHING ABOUT
REDUCING NATURAL GAS
COMBUSTION.
THE I BELIEVE THAT THERE'S A
NARRATIVE OUT THERE THAT
SUSTAINABILITY AND
AFFORDABILITY ARE IN CONFLICT.
IT'S TRUE THAT UTILITY COSTS
FOR ELECTRICALLY HEATED
BUILDINGS ARE HIGHER LARGELY
BECAUSE OF ARTIFICIALLY HIGH
ELECTRIC UTILITY RATES.
BUT THE DIFFERENCE IS SMALL
COMPARED TO THE OVERALL
EXPENSIVE RENTING OR OWNING FOR
ONE OF THESE HYPOTHETICAL
APARTMENT UNITS YOU'LL PAY TWO
HUNDRED AND EIGHTY DOLLARS MORE
A YEAR WITH ELECTRIC AIR SOURCE
HEAT PUMPS THAT'S TWENTY THREE
DOLLARS A MONTH.
I DON'T WANT TO MINIMIZE THAT
BUT CONSIDER THE SOCIAL COST
OF CARBON DEFINED THE PRESENT
VALUE OF ALL FUTURE IMPACTS
FROM ADDITIONAL METRIC TON
OF CO2 EMISSIONS IN TWENTY
TWENTY THREE THE EPA SET THE
TOTAL COST OF CARBON IN ONE
HUNDRED NINETY DOLLARS PER TON
IN OUR APARTMENT SAMPLE THAT'S
ONE HUNDRED AND TEN DOLLARS PER
UNIT PER MONTH MORE THAN FOUR
TIMES WHAT YOU SAVE BY USING
GAS BUT BECAUSE WE TREAT THE
ATMOSPHERE AS AN OPEN SEWER FOR
EMISSIONS WE DON'T COUNT THAT
MOST OF THE HUMAN COST FROM
CLIMATE CHANGE FALLS ON POOR
PEOPLE ELSEWHERE INCLUDING THE
GLOBAL SOUTH.
SO IF WE DON'T REVERSE COURSE
NOW WE REALLY HAVE NO LIVABLE
FUTURE A THREE OR FOUR DEGREE
HOTTER WORLD WHICH IS WHERE
WE'RE HEADED WILL NOT BE A
PLACE WORTH LIVING EVEN HERE
THE COMPLINE SHOULD BE EXPLICIT
ABOUT THAT.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU MR. CARVER.
ALL RIGHT.
DO WE HAVE ANYONE ELSE PRESENT
THAT WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT
THIS TIME SEEING NOTHING?
>> DO WE HAVE REMOTE CALLERS?
>> WE DO.
THERE ARE THREE COLORS OF WITH
THEIR HANDS RAISED THIS EVENING
THE FIRST COLOR ENDING IN PHONE
NUMBER FIVE THREE FOUR.
YOU HAVE PERMISSION TO ADDRESS
THE PLANNING COMMISSION
.
>> GOOD EVENING.
THIS IS TOM STOPPARD.
I'M CALLING FOR A ONE TWO ZERO
TWO THREE STREET IN LOWERTOWN
ANN ARBOR.
>> THERE ARE A LOT OF LETTERS
AND A LOT OF SPEAKERS AND A LOT
OF GREAT THINGS BEING SAID
SOMETHING TO FOCUS ON VERY
SPECIFIC ONE OR TWO ITEMS I'M A
LANDLORD.
I HAVE A LONG VERSION INVESTORS
ABOUT SIXTEEN HOMES, MOST
OF WHICH ARE DUPLEX SINCE 1994
WE'VE BEEN PROVIDING AFFORDABLE
AND WORKFORCE HOUSING AND
GENERAL DENSITY DUPLEXES.
TRIPLEX IS MY FIRST PURCHASE
FOR TWO FRIENDS NOW WITH DUPLEX
ZONING PEOPLE.
ALL RIGHT.
IT WAS KIND OF ON PURPOSE
ACCIDENTAL BUT NOW YOU CAN HAVE
TODAY MORE THAN TWO UNITS AND A
DUPLEX A LOT BETTER THAN WHAT
HAPPENS AFTER THAT.
I'LL GIVE YOU A REAL WORLD
EXAMPLE.
I'VE GOT SOME PAIRS OF DUPLEX
FLATS WHERE I HAVE HOUSING.
>> THEY'RE MODEST SIZE EXACTLY
THE SAME AS THE NEIGHBORHOOD.
TAKE FOR EXAMPLE ONE PAIR AND
SIXTY SIX FOOT SIX FOOT WIDE
LOTS.
>> I DID SOME QUICK MATH HERE
USING THE EXACT SAME SET BACK
FOR A LITTLE WHILE TODAY.
MASS-PRODUCING SETBACKS AND
GOING TO FORTY EIGHT FEET HIGH
I HAVE TEN THOUSAND SIX HUNDRED
FOURTEEN SQUARE FEET OF AREA
TIMES FORTY EIGHT FEET THAT'S
ABOUT FIVE HUNDRED THOUSAND
SQUARE FOOT OF A CUBE THAT I
COULD BUILD ON NOW I'M GOING TO
HAVE SOME PARKING SOME HALLWAYS
THAT'S A FORTY EIGHT WHAT TALL
APARTMENT BUILDING WITH
NEIGHBORS WE HAVE FIVE FOOT
OUTSIDE THAT'S ABOUT DOUBLE THE
HEIGHT OF THE NEIGHBORS.
>> WHAT IS THAT GOING TO DO TO
THE AFFORDABLE FIRST HOUSING
THAT I CURRENTLY PROVIDE HOMES
THERE IF YOU CHOOSE TO GO TO
FORTY EIGHT FEET THE PRESSURE
ON THE NEIGHBORHOOD FOR PEOPLE
LIKE ME TO SELL MY MODEST
HOUSING TO A DEVELOPER, I DON'T
BUILD THOSE APARTMENT BUILDINGS
BUT IF I SELL TO A DEVELOPER
THAT'S WHAT'S COMING AND THAT
IS THERE.
NO I DON'T LIVE IN I LIVE A
BLOCK AWAY.
I DON'T THINK I WANT TO DO THIS
TO MY NEIGHBORS.
THAT'S MY NEIGHBORHOOD.
BUT YES, WHAT I GOT ANOTHER
KAROLOS A LITTLE FURTHER AWAY
THAT ARE EVEN BIGGER.
>> A LOT OF PRESSURE.
MY INVESTORS SAY TOM WHY ARE
YOU HOLDING OUT SO WE NEED TO
KNOW THIS THING.
MIDDLE HOUSING TYPES NOT
NECESSARILY MISSING METAL
PRICES THE FIRST THING YOU DO
IF YOU CHANGE THINGS FIFTY
FORTY FEET TALL IS INCREASE THE
COST TO THE LAND.
SURE THAT'LL MAKE ME WEALTHIER
IF I SELL OUT
I DON'T EVEN HAVE
TO SELL I GO TO THE BANK,
BORROW ABOUT INCREASED VALUE
RIGHT AWAY.
>> BUT ONCE YOU INCREASE THE
COST OF THE LAND THE INCREASE
OF THE FIRST PIECE OF THE
PUZZLE TO BUILDING NEW MR.
STALBERG WE'RE OF TIME WILL NOT
THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU.
APPRECIATE YOUR OUR NEXT CALLER
IS ADAM MISCAVIGE.
>> YOU HAVE PERMISSION TO
ADDRESS THE PLANNING
COMMISSION.
HI THIS IS ADAM JUSZKIEWICZ
CALLING FROM LAS VEGAS DRIVE
THE FOURTH WARD AS SOMEONE WHO
HAS LIVED IN ANN ARBOR FOR
THIRTY YEARS, I FELT I SHOULD
REGISTER MY SUPPORT FOR THIS
PLAN.
IT'S INTERESTING TO HEAR PEOPLE
TRY TO FRAME THIS AS BEING
ABOUT LONG TERM ARNAB RIGHTS
PROTECTING SO-CALLED
NEIGHBORHOOD CHARACTER AGAINST
NEW RESIDENTS RESIDENTS WHO
MIGHT BE THOSE KIND OF PEOPLE
OR COMPARE BUILDING HOMES TO
CANCER.
WE'RE A DESIRABLE COMMUNITY
WITH A SEVERE SHORTAGE OF HOMES
AND HAS MADE OUR CITY
UNAFFORDABLE FOR MANY.
WE CANNOT CONTINUE ON THAT PATH
.
WE ARE ALSO IN A CLIMATE CRISIS
AND WE KNOW THAT COMPACT,
DENSE, WALKABLE URBAN AREAS
WELL SERVED BY PUBLIC TRANSIT
ARE GOOD FOR THE PLANET.
I WATCHED YOUR LAST MEETING
WHEN WE DISCUSSED THE DIRECTION
OF THE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN AND
I'M COMFORTABLE WITH THE
DIRECTION THAT PLANNING
COMMISSION GAVE TO STAFF.
I SUPPORT MORE HOMES BEING
BUILT EVERYWHERE IN OUR CITY.
I'M ENTIRELY COMFORTABLE WITH
FOUR STORIES IN LOW RISE
RESIDENTIAL AREAS LIKE MY OWN.
THIS SEEMS TO BE ONLY A SMALL
INCREASE OVER THE HEIGHT
OF MANY HOMES IN THE CITY THAT
ARE THREE STORIES PLUS A GARDEN
LEVEL PARTICULARLY SOME OF THE
TOWN HOME DEVELOPMENTS.
I'M SUPPORTIVE OF USING A PHONE
BASED CODE TO CONTROL DENSITY
RATHER DENSITY RATHER THAN UNIT
DENSITY LIMITS.
I WOULD LIKE TO SEE PLENTY
OF FLEXIBILITY FOR LOT SPLITS
AND COMBINATIONS AND I WOULD
LIKE TO SEE EVERYTHING IN THE
SPECTRUM OF MISSING MIDDLE
HOUSING ALLOWED BY RIGHT NEXT
DOOR TO MY HOME.
ONE THING I DIDN'T HEAR MUCH
ABOUT IN YOUR LAST MEETING IS
THE TRANSITIONAL MIXED USE
AREAS LIKE MR. WEST.
WELL, I'D LIKE TO SEE THE 80
FOOT MAXIMUM HEIGHT LIMIT
REVISITED.
I THINK IT IS FINE TO HAVE A
STEPDOWN RULE SIMILAR TO SEE
ONE TO LIMIT THE HEIGHT
ADJACENT TO LOW RISE AREAS AND
WHERE THIS HAPPENS IN A STRIP
ALONG A CORRIDOR, THE 80 FOOT
LIMIT IS PROBABLY APPROPRIATE.
HOWEVER, THERE ARE SOME AREAS
WHERE MULTIPLE CONTIGUOUS
BLOCKS OF TRANSITIONAL MIXED
USE ARE PROPOSED PARTICULARLY
NEAR THE DOWNTOWN CORE AREAS
AND I THINK T HEIGHT LIMIT
WOULD UNNECESSARILY LIMIT
DENSITY TOWARD THE INTERIOR
OF THOSE AREAS OR WHERE THEY
HAD JOINED MIXED USE HUB.
THEY MIGHT EVEN MAKE SOME
EXISTING OR UNDER-CONSTRUCTION
BUILDINGS NONCONFORMING AND I'M
NOT COMFORTABLE WITH DOING
THAT.
I THINK ADDING ADDITIONAL STEPS
AS BUILDINGS GET FURTHER FROM
LOW RISE RESIDENTIAL WOULD
ADDRESS THIS ANYWAY.
>> I JUST WANTED TO OFFER THE
PERSPECTIVE OF ONE LONG TERM
RIGHT WHO DOES SUPPORT THESE
CHANGES AND DOES SUPPORT
HOUSING ABUNDANCE.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU, MR. JUSZKIEWICZ.
MANAGER HANK KELLY.
I GUESS WE CAN GO WITH THAT.
YEAH, I'M SORRY MANAGER KELLY.
>> OUR NEXT CALLER IS PHONE
NUMBER ENDING IN FOUR FOR SIX
YOU HAVE PERMISSION TO ADDRESS
PLANTED QUESTION.
HI MY NAME'S AARON.
I LIVE AT TEN THIRTY NINE
OLIVIA AVENUE AND I APOLOGIZE
IN ADVANCE FOR I HAD DRAFTED
SOMETHING BUT I'M IN THE CAR
DRIVING SO I'M GOING TO DO MY
BEST TO KIND OF REMEMBER WHAT I
HAD DRAFTED OUT SO I I FEEL AS
THOUGH THE NEIGHBORHOOD SHOULD
BE ABLE TO DIVINE THE GROWTH A
BIT MORE.
EACH NEIGHBORHOOD HAS ITS OWN
ISSUES AND GOALS AND I FEEL AS
THOUGH THE ONLY THING THAT THE
PLANNING COMMISSION CAN DO IS
KIND OF GIVE A VOICE TO THE
NEIGHBORHOODS AND HOW THAT BEST
SUITS THEM.
MY NEIGHBORHOOD IN PARTICULAR
IS A BRIGHT CAMPUS AND I AS WAS
MENTIONED EARLIER WE ALREADY
HAVE FORTY PERCENT RENTALS IN
OUR NEIGHBORHOOD WHICH IS THE
GREAT MAJORITY ARE LIVED IN BY
UNDERGRADS NOT THE THOSE THAT
ARE WORKING AND LIVING IN THE
CITY FOR A LONG PERIOD OF TIME
AND PAYING TAXES AND JUST ON MY
BLOCK ALONE THIS WITHIN THE
LAST FEW MONTHS I'VE CALLED
MULTIPLE TIMES ON UNDERGRADS
FOR DRAG RACING SHOOTING GUNS
OFF IN THE NEIGHBORHOOD.
I'VE HAD MULTIPLE KIDS COME TO
MY DOOR WITHOUT SHOES ON IN THE
MIDDLE OF THE NIGHT.
I HAVE YOUNG KIDS THAT GO TO
ELEMENTARY SCHOOL DOWN THE
BLOCK AND THE POINT IS IS IF I
GET ANOTHER RENTAL BUILDING
WITH A POTENTIALLY UP TO 50 OR
MORE STUDENTS NEXT DOOR TO ME
THAT DYNAMICS WHICH IS EVEN
MORE AND I WOULD JUST LIKE TO
HAVE SOME SAY IN THE
DEVELOPMENT PARTICULARLY THIS
CLOSE TO CAMPUS ON AND HOW WE
KIND OF DEAL WITH THESE DENSITY
ISSUES.
I WOULD LOVE FOR MORE
AFFORDABILITY AND HOUSING
OPTIONS AND I WOULD REALLY LOVE
THAT.
BUT I DO THINK THERE ARE
SPECIFIC THINGS THAT EACH
NEIGHBORHOOD NEEDS TO TAKE INTO
CONSIDERATION AND I WOULD LIKE
A GREATER VOICE FOR ALL OF OUR
NEIGHBORHOODS AND THAT'S IT FOR
ME.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU ANGIE KELLY, ANY
OTHER SPEAKERS?
>> ONE LAST SPEAKER WITH THEIR
HANDS RAISED PHONE NUMBER
ENDING IN SEVEN NINE EIGHT.
YOUR PERMISSION TO ADDRESS THE
PLANNING COMMISSION
.
HI, THIS IS FINE.
I'M IN WARD FIVE AND YOU HEAR
ME?
>> YES.
YES.
>> YES WE CAN.
OK OK GREAT.
ALL I'M REPRESENTING AND I MEAN
I READ CHAPTER CITIZENS CLIMATE
LOBBY WITH ALL DUE RESPECT TO
THOSE WHO SPOKE BEFORE ME ABOUT
THE DENSITY CONCERNS BUT IN THE
NEIGHBORHOODS I'M IN HERE LIKE
MR. GARBER TO PRIMARILY TALK
ABOUT THE SUSTAINABILITY
ASPECTS OF THE COMPREHENSIVE
PLAN OF A CLIMATE ADVOCACY
ORGANIZATION CCL UNDERSTANDS
SUPPORTS THE NEED FOR THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN TO FOCUS ON
DENSITY ESPECIALLY WHEN IT
ADDRESSES THE MISSING MIDDLE
AND INCREASED DEVELOPMENT ALONG
TRANSPORTATION CORRIDORS.
WE BELIEVE THIS WILL INCREASE
AFFORDABLE AND SUSTAINABLE FROM
A SUSTAINABILITY STANDPOINT
REDUCES VEHICLE MILES TRAVELED,
WHICH ADDRESSES THE CITY'S
CARBON NEUTRALITY GOALS SINCE
30 PERCENT OF THE
CARBON EMISSIONS COMES FROM
TRANSPORTATION BUT THE ENERGY
THAT'S USED BY BUILDINGS
COMPRISES A MUCH LARGER SHARE
OF THE CITY'S EMISSIONS AND
ABOUT 68 69 PERCENT MORE THAN
DOUBLE THE EMISSIONS FROM
TRANSPORT AS WE BUILD MORE EVEN
REDUCE CAR TRAVEL EMISSIONS
WILL ACTUALLY INCREASE IF THE
CITY'S POPULATION GROWTH IS
PROJECTED.
THAT'S THE CASE UNLESS WE DO A
LOT MORE DECARBONIZE OUR
BUILDINGS WE SEE FOR A BRIEF
STATEMENTS IN THE COMPREHENSIVE
PLAN DOCUMENTS AND
PRESENTATIONS THAT MENTIONED
INCLUDING GREEN BUILDING
PRACTICES.
BUT WE HAVEN'T SEEN ANY
SPECIFICS.
WE'RE ASKING FOR SOMETHING MORE
CONCRETE THAT ALONG WITH
PLANNING FOR GREATER DENSITY
WE'LL ALSO PLAN WHETHER I WAS
THE MINIMUM RECOMMENDATION
OF POLICIES THAT ENCOURAGE HIGH
LEVELS OF SESSION SEE FOR
ELECTRIFICATION AND USE
OF CLEAN ELECTRICITY FOR ALL
BUILDINGS IN MAJOR REHABS MOST
OF OUR COMMUNITY REALIZES THAT
WE'RE IN A CLIMATE EMERGENCY
AND OUR PROVIDERS HAVE
EXPRESSED OVERWHELMING SUPPORT
FOR CLIMATE ACTION WITH OVER 70
PERCENT VOTING WITH THEIR
WALLETS BY VOTING FOR THE
CLIMATE.
THE CITY'S DEVELOPMENT
COMMUNITY HAS RECENTLY BEEN
ESTABLISHING ITSELF AS A
CLIMATE LEADER WITH AN
OVERWHELMING MULTIFAMILY
BUILDINGS IN OUR ELECTRIC CITY
,OFFICIALS AND REPRESENTATIVES
SHOULD EXTEND THAT LEADERSHIP
AS PART OF A COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
THAT CAN BEYOND THE ISSUES
RELATING TO LAND USE LIMITS.
THE PHONE LINES WITH
CARBON NEUTRALITY GO THAT MEANS
HAVING A COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
THAT INCLUDES RECOMMENDATIONS
GUIDANCE THAT DIRECTLY
ADDRESSES BUILDING
DEPERSONALIZATION.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU AND THE OTHER
SPEAKERS THAT CONCLUDES THE
RAISED HANDS TERRORISM.
>> OK, JUST TWO MORE SECONDS OK
WITH THAT WILL CLOSE PUBLIC
COMMENT.
I'M GOING TO TAKE A QUICK
SECOND.
THANK YOU ALL SO MUCH FOR
COMING TO SPEAK AT A CIVIC
ENGAGEMENT IS EXTREMELY
IMPORTANT AND IT MAY BE
CHALLENGING TO SPEAK IN PUBLIC.
SO I REALLY APPRECIATE THE
BRAVERY IN SHARING YOUR
COMMENTS WITH US TONIGHT AND
NAVIGATING THESE TENSIONS IN A
HEALTHY MANNER TO STRENGTHEN
CIVIC ENGAGEMENT.
SO AND DISSENT IS A HALLMARK
OF DEMOCRACY.
>> SO THIS IS IMPORTANT FOR US
TO HAVE THESE DISCUSSIONS AND I
REALLY WANT TO MAKE SURE THAT
YOUR VOICE IS HEARD ON TWO
QUICK NOTES.
PLEASE GO TO IF YOU ARE
INTERESTED IN LEARNING MORE
ABOUT THIS PROCESS, PLEASE GO
TO E TO DOT GOV PLANNING.
THERE'S A RIGHT SIDEBAR AND YOU
CAN CLICK ON THE ENVELOPE
BUTTON AND IT'LL SIGN YOU UP
FOR PLANNING NOTIFICATIONS.
THERE WILL BE UPCOMING MEETINGS
WHEN THE DRAFT IS AVAILABLE AND
AVAILABLE FOR PUBLIC COMMENT IN
THE SUMMER TIME AND SO THAT'S I
THINK A TIMELINE RIGHT NOW IS
THAT THE THE DRAFT IS BEING
WORKED ON RIGHT NOW AND IT'S
GOING TO GO THROUGH A THOROUGH
DISCUSSION PROCESS.
>> WE ALSO FOR I'M GLAD THAT
THE NEIGHBORHOOD WAS ABLE TO
GET THE PRESENTATION FOR OTHER
NEIGHBORHOODS THAT WANT THE
PRESENTATION AND INTERESTED
OTHER NEIGHBORHOOD GROUPS
PLEASE DO EMAIL PLANNING AT E
TO DOT GOV.
>> THEY'LL DO THE BEST THEY CAN
TO ACCOMMODATE AND IT'LL BE
GREAT TO AGAIN GET MORE CIVIC
ENGAGEMENT IN THIS PARTICULAR
MATTER.
SO THANK YOU ALL FOR COMING.
UNFORTUNATELY I.
S I WOULD ACTUALLY I WOULD LIKE
TO MAKE A QUICK CORRECTION THE
THE WEB SITE FOR THE MAIN
WEBSITE WEBPAGE FOR PLANNING IS
A DOT ORG SLASH PLANNING AND IN
THAT RIGHT SIDEBAR THERE IS AN
ENVELOPE ICON.
IF YOU CLICK ON THAT YOU CAN
SIGN UP NOT ONLY FOR PLANNING
RELATED UPDATES BUT YOU CAN
SIGN UP FOR ALL MANNER
OF NOTIFICATIONS FROM DIFFERENT
CITY DEPARTMENTS THAT MAY BE
OF INTEREST TO YOU.
YOU CAN QUIT THEM ANY TIME AND
THE WHAT I'M SORRY THE EMAIL
ADDRESS WOULD BE PLANNING AT TO
GUBJRG IS OUR MAIN INBOXES
MONITORED MULTIPLE TIMES DAILY
AND THEN WE DIRECT YOUR INQUIRY
TO THE RELEVANT STAFF.
>> THANK YOU AGAIN YOU ALL
RIGHT?
>> ALL RIGHT.
WITH THAT WE'RE GOING TO MOVE
ON TO PUBLIC HEARING SCHEDULED
FOR THE NEXT BUSINESS MEETING.
WE'LL TURN TO STAFF DEPUTY
MANAGER KELLY JUST ONE MOMENT
SHE'S GATHERING FOR THE TUESDAY
MARCH 18 CITY PLANNING
COMMISSION MEETING.
THERE ARE FIVE PUBLIC HEARINGS
ON YOUR AGENDA, THE FIRST
OF WHICH IS AN ORDINANCE TO
AMEND SECTION FIVE POINT TO
EIGHT POINT FOR CITIZEN
PARTICIPATION REQUIREMENTS
OF CHAPTER FIFTY FIVE, THE
UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT CODE OF
TITLE FIVE OF THE CODE OF THE
CITY BANABA TO MODIFY SECTIONS
TO CHANGE TITLE TIMING
ESTABLISH RESPONSIBILITY FOR
CITY STAFF TO SHARE INFORMATION
PUBLICLY AND TO ADD ADDITIONAL
REQUIREMENTS.
THE SECOND IS AN ORDINANCE TO
MEND SECTIONS FIVE POINT TO
EIGHT GENERAL PROCEDURES FIVE
POINT NINE POINT FOUR WETLANDS
USE PERMIT FIVE POINT TWO NINE
POINT SIX SITE PLAN FIVE POINT
TWO NINE POINT SEVEN AREA PLANS
SECTION FIVE POINT TO NINE
POINT ELEVEN PLANNED UNIT
DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT OF CHAPTER
FIFTY FIVE UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT
CODE OF TITLE FIVE OF THE
CODE CITY ANN ARBOR TO REMOVE
PUBLIC HEARING REQUIREMENTS
FROM SITE PLAN REVIEWS.
THE THIRD PUBLIC HEARING IS AN
ORDINANCE TO AMEND SECTION FIVE
POINT TO NINE POINT NINETY LAND
DIVISIONS OF CHAPTER FIFTY FIVE
UNIFIED VOLUNTARY CODE OF TITLE
FIVE OF THE CITY OF THE CODE OF
THE CITY BANABA TO REMOVE
NOTIFICATION REQUIREMENTS FROM
LAND DIVISION.
THE FOURTH HEARING IS AN
ORDINANCE TO AMEND SECTION FIVE
POINT THREE ZERO AMENDMENTS TO
DEVELOPMENT APPROVALS
OF CHAPTER FIFTY FIVE UNIFIED
DEVELOPMENT CODE OF THE CITY
EVENT ARBER TO MODIFY PROCESS
FOR MODIFICATIONS TO PREVIOUSLY
APPROVED PROJECTS AND FINALLY
ELEVEN FIFTY FIVE ARLINGTON
BOULEVARD ANNEXATION AND ZONING
A PETITION FROM OWNERS
OF ELEVEN FIFTY FIVE ARLINGTON
BOULEVARD TO ANNEX THE ONE ACRE
PARCEL FROM ANN ARBOR TOWNSHIP
INTO THE CITY AND ZONE R A
SINGLE FAMILY DWELLING DISTRICT
.
THANK YOU THAT WILL TAKE US TO
SECTION EIGHT WHICH IS
UNFINISHED BUSINESS WHICH THERE
ARE NOT THAT TAKES US TO OUR
FIRST REGULAR BUSINESS ITEM
WHICH IS TWELVE OH NINE S
UNIVERSITY AVENUE.
THIS IS A PROPOSED SITE PLAN TO
CONSTRUCT NEW NINETEEN STOREY
MIXED USE RESIDENTIAL
DEVELOPMENT BUILDING WITH
GROUND FLOOR RETAIL ON A ZERO
POINT THREE NINE ACRE SITE
ZONED DEVOIR AND THE PROPOSED
DEVELOPMENT INCLUDES DEMOLITION
OF AN EXISTING RETAIL BUILDING
AND RECONSTRUCTION OF A
PEDESTRIAN CORRIDOR ALONG
CHURCH STREET AND S UNIVERSITY
AVENUE.
THE SITE IS LOCATED IN WARD ONE
AND WE WILL FIRST START WITH
PETITIONER PRESENTATION.
>> WELCOME.
THANK YOU.
I GOOD EVENING COMMISSIONERS.
MY NAME IS ALLISON MILLS.
I'M A VICE PRESIDENT WITH
SERGEY ARE THE DEVELOPER OF THE
PROJECT.
I'M JUST GOING TO DO SOME QUICK
INTROS OF OUR TEAM AND THEN
I'LL HAND IT OVER TO OUR
ARCHITECTURE TEAM TO WALK YOU
THROUGH THE PROJECT.
WITH ME TONIGHT IS SEAN WALKER.
HE'S A PRINCIPAL WITH ALAMAR
JOHNSON COLLABORATIVE.
THERE ARE ARCHITECTURE TEAM ON
THE PROJECT.
THEY'RE ACTUALLY IN HOUSE TO US
SERGEY.
WE DO ARCHITECTURE AND
DEVELOPMENT VERTICALLY
INTEGRATED HERE.
WE ALSO HAVE TED HIRSCH WITH
MIDWESTERN ENGINEERING.
THERE ARE CIVIL ENGINEER ON THE
PROJECT AND THEN BRAD MOORE WHO
HAS BEEN SUPPORTING OUR
ARCHITECTURE AND DESIGN TEAM.
THANK YOU.
>> I'LL JUST GIVE YOU A LITTLE
BIT OF BACKGROUND ABOUT SERGEY.
WE'RE A REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT
INVESTMENT FIRM.
WE'RE HEADQUARTERED IN CHICAGO
BUT WE ARE ACTIVE ALL ACROSS
THE US AND WE'VE BEEN AROUND
FOR JUST OVER THIRTY YEARS,
HAVE DEVELOPED ABOUT TWO
HUNDRED AND TWENTY MILLION
SQUARE FEET OF PROPERTY.
MY TEAM SPECIFICALLY FOCUSES ON
ALL OF OUR RESIDENTIAL PROJECTS
THROUGHOUT THE US NEXT.
>> THANK YOU.
WE ALSO HAVE A COUPLE
OF PARTNERS ON THE PROJECT AND
I WANT INTRODUCED ON THE
OWNERSHIP SIDE.
SO LOCALLY WE'VE BEEN PARTNERED
WITH USE PROPERTIES.
THEY ARE THE DEVELOPER
OF IVILLAGE NORTH AND SOUTH AND
THEN SOME OF OUR TEAM IN OUR
PREVIOUS COMPANY HAD WORKED
WITH THEM ON THE LANDMARK
PROJECT ALSO ON S2.
SO A LONG PARTNERSHIP THAT
WE'RE EXCITED TO CONTINUE AGAIN
IN ANN ARBOR AND THEN WE'VE
ALSO JV WITH QPAC PARTNERS.
THEY ARE OUT OF CHICAGO.
THEY'RE ANOTHER LONGTIME
PARTNER OF OURS.
WE'VE WORKED ON SEVERAL
PROJECTS TOGETHER BUT REALLY
FOCUSED MORE UNIQUE RESIDENTIAL
AND RETAIL EXPERIENCES.
SO WE'RE REALLY EXCITED TO
BRING THEIR EXPERTIZE TO THIS
PROJECT AS WELL.
BUT WITH THAT I WILL TURN IT
OVER TO ONE.
LET ME MAKE PERFECT.
>> ALL RIGHT.
SO I'M GOING TO TAKE A FEW
MINUTES AND TALK ABOUT THE
ARCHITECTURE CHARACTER AND
COMPONENTS OF THIS PROJECT AND
ALSO TALK ABOUT THE PROCESS
OF HOW WE GOT HERE.
SO WE'LL START BIG PICTURE WITH
WHERE THE SITE'S LOCATED.
SO THE SITES IDENTIFIED HERE ON
THE NORTHEAST CORNER OF SEIU
AND CHURCH YOU CAN SEE THIS IS
A ZONING MAP WE HAVE PUT
TOGETHER WHERE WE'RE BOUNDED BY
TWO PRIMARY STREETS AS ARE
DEFINED IN THE ZONING AND WE'RE
RIGHT OFF THE SPECIAL ZONING
DISTRICT.
THERE'S SOME BASIC BUILDING
DATA ON THE RIGHT THERE WHERE
YOU CAN SEE WE HAVE ABOUT ONE
HUNDRED AND EIGHTY THREE UNITS
AND OVER NINETEEN STOREYS IT
COMES TO JUST OVER TWO HUNDRED
AND FIFTY THOUSAND SQUARE FEET
.
THIS IS A RENDERING FROM THE
PROJECT'S NORTHWEST KIND
OF OVER THE CAMPUS WITH OUR
BUILDING KIND OF GLOWING IN YOU
.
EVERYONE KNOWS THE NATURE
OF THE S YOU AREA HERE WHERE
YOU KNOW THE THE A FEW YEARS
AGO THE SCOPE AND SCALE
OF PROJECTS THERE WAS A LOT
SMALLER BUT NOW YOU COULD SEE
THIS PROJECT IS RIGHT IN LINE
WITH THE HEIGHT AND DENSITY
OF WHAT'S AROUND IT AND EVEN
THE UNIVERSITY TOWERS TO
DIRECTLY ADJACENT TO IT YOU
COULD SEE THE WHAT WE'LL TALK
ABOUT LATER THE PHOTOVOLTAICS
THERE ON THE ROOF KIND OF STAND
OUT IN THIS RENDERING.
>> OK, NOW WE'LL MOVE TO SOME
FLOOR PLANS AND THIS IS A FIRST
FLOOR PLAN AND YOU MIGHT BE
SAYING WOW, THAT LOOKS A BIT
DISJOINTED IN SEGMENT AND IT IS
SO THE SITE HAD IT CAME WITH A
FEW UNIQUE CHALLENGES.
SO ONE OF THEM WAS SITE ACCESS
AGREEMENTS TO THE PROPERTY
DIRECTLY TO THE NORTH AND ALSO
THE PROPERTY DIRECTLY TO THE
EAST.
WE ALSO HAVE A DTG EASEMENT
ALONG THE NORTH PORTION OF THE
SITE WHICH YOU CAN SEE WITH
KIND OF A SINGLE HASH SIGNAL
SIGNIFIER THERE.
AND THEN LASTLY WE'RE
MAINTAINING ACCESS FOR SOLID
WASTE REMOVAL WITH MAINTAINING
A 15 FOOT CLEAR HEIGHT FOR
GARBAGE TRUCK TO COME INTO THE
SITE WITH A TWENTY FIVE FOOT
TIP ZONE WHICH YOU CAN KIND
OF SEE IN THAT CROSSHATCH AREA
DIRECTLY ABOVE THE PINK.
SO WITH S THE UNIVERSITY BEING
BOTTOM ON THE PAGE AND CHURCH
ON THE LEFT, THE PINK AREA IS
REPRESENTING THE LOBBY OF THE
BUILDING AND THE AREA TO THE
LEFT IS REPRESENTING ABOUT
THIRTY SEVEN HUNDRED SQUARE
FEET OF RETAIL THERE RIGHT ON
THE CORNER.
>> ANOTHER KEY THING TO POINT
OUT ON THIS FIRST FLOOR PLAN IS
THERE'S TWO ON-STREET LOADING
ZONES, ONE DIRECTLY BELOW THAT
PINK LOBBY ON S U FOR OBREHT
AND PACKAGE DROP OFF THAT SORT
OF THING AND THEN A SECOND ONE
OVER ON CHURCH STREET FOR THE
RETAIL LOADING.
YOU KNOW, AS I MENTIONED
EARLIER WITH THE SITE ACCESS
AGREEMENTS AND THE THE THE
TRASH TRUCK ACCESS YOU WERE
PROVIDING THIS PEDESTRIAN
FRIENDLY VEHICLE ACCESS THROUGH
THE CENTER OF THE SITE WHICH
YOU COULD SEE THERE WHICH WE'RE
CONTROLLING WITH HYDRAULIC
BOLLARDS IT WILL LOWER AND A
PERFORATED COILING DOOR IN BACK
THEY'LL STILL LET LIGHT
THROUGH.
THE INTENT HERE IS MAKE IT VERY
WALKABLE FOR THE TENANTS OF THE
BUILDING WHERE THEY CAN FLOW
OVER TO THE RETAIL SPACE WELL
LIT AND KEEP IT SAFE BUT STILL
ALLOW VEHICLES TO ACCESS THE
SITE AS NEEDED SECOND FLOOR AND
MOVING UP.
>> I'M GOING TO GO A LITTLE
QUICKER HERE.
SO THE PURPLE REPRESENTS THE
DWELLING UNITS AND WE HAVE A
VARIETY DOWN FROM STUDIOS UP TO
TWO TWO BEDROOM, FOUR BEDROOMS
AND FIVE BEDROOMS A GOOD
VARIETY OF EACH ON THE LEFT
HERE IS A MAINARDI SPACE
OVERLOOKING THE CORNER THAT'S
LEVEL TWO.
>> I'LL GO UP THE FLOOR AND
THIS LEVEL IS KIND
OF REPRESENTS LEVEL THREE
THROUGH EIGHTEEN.
IT'S VERY TYPICAL GOING UP
YOU'LL NOTICE THE FIVE STEP
BACK ALONG CHURCH AND SOUTH
UNIVERSITY TO RESPOND TO THAT
DOWNTOWN ZONING CRITERIA.
I MEAN YOU'LL NOTICE THE
VARIETY OF DIFFERENT UNIT TYPES
THAT ARE REPRESENTED ON THE
PLAN GOING UP AGAIN TO THE TOP
FLOOR LEVEL NINETEEN.
SO HERE IT'S ALL AMENITIES
SPACE AND THIS IS A VARIETY
OF FITNESS AND OTHER PUBLIC
SOCIAL AREAS AS WELL AS A
EXTERIOR AMENITY SPACE KIND
OF A SMALLER ONE ON THE
SOUTHWEST CORNER THERE AND ALL
THE BACK OF HOUSE MECHANICAL
SPACE HAS BEEN PUSHED TO THE
NORTH OFF THE MAIN STREETS.
AND LASTLY HERE IS A OVERALL
ROOF PLAN SHOWING THE SOLAR
COMPONENT OF THE PROJECT.
SO IN ORDER TO ACHIEVE THE
THIRTY PERCENT HEIGHT INCREASE,
YOU KNOW WE'RE FULL
ELECTRIFICATION ON DAY ONE AND
SIXTY PERCENT LOT COVERAGE WITH
PHOTOVOLTAICS.
SO HERE BASED ON OUR CURRENT
ESTIMATED ANNUAL PRODUCTION
WE'RE JUST UNDER TWO HUNDRED
AND THIRTY FIVE MEGAWATT HOURS
PER YEAR FOR THE PROPERTY AND
IT WILL GET INTO THE RENDERINGS
WHICH IS A LITTLE MORE FUN AND
WE'RE TRYING TO CREATE
SOMETHING EXCITING HERE.
YOU
CAN SEE THIS IS LOOKING
FROM THE SOUTHWEST AND YOU CAN
SEE THE DISTINCT TOP, MIDDLE
AND BASE OF THE BUILDING WHICH
IS IMPORTANT HERE AND WE'RE
WORKING TO, YOU KNOW, USE A A
MIX OF MASONRY AND THESE ARE
KIND OF SUBDUED COLORED BUT
WE'RE TRYING TO DETAIL IT IN A
VERY SOPHISTICATED, VERY
SOPHISTICATED WAY WHICH IS
ELEGANT ON THE FIRST FLOOR HERE
WE'RE WORKING TO YOU COULD SEE
WE'RE WORKING TO ACHIEVE A YOU
KNOW, A REAL PEDESTRIAN SCALE
TO THE TO THE DEVELOPMENT.
YOU SEE THE SET BACK THERE AT
LEVEL TWO TO RESPOND TO THE
DOWNTOWN ZONING CRITERIA AND
YOU CAN ALSO SEE KIND OF THAT
FORTY FIVE FOOT REGIMENTED, YOU
KNOW, DELINEATION CHANGE ALONG
THE FACADE AS YOU MARCH DOWN
THE BUILDING.
HERE'S A QUICK SLIDE TO TALK
ABOUT THE MATERIALS ON THE
BUILDINGS THAT WE HAVE MASONRY
ON THE MAIN MAIN FACADE
OF CHURCH AND S THE UNIVERSITY
WITH METAL PANEL AND GLASS ON
THE TOP FLOOR AND THEN IT
CHANGES TO A SEMANTICIST TYPE
PRODUCT ON THE NORTH FACADE OFF
THE MAIN STREET.
>> I'LL MOVE QUICKLY THROUGH
THE ELEVATIONS SEEING THE TIME
THIS IS THE SOUTH ELEVATION.
YOU KNOW YOU CAN AGAIN SEE THE
THE BREAKUP OF THE BUILDING
BOTH GOING UP AND WORKING
CROSSED IN THE ELEVATION IS THE
CHURCH STREET FACADE.
IT'S ONLY THE PORTION ON THE
LEFT THERE IS TRULY ON THE
STREET.
THE OTHER PORTION IS KIND
OF FADED OFF IN THE DISTANCE
AND THEN WE'LL GO TO THE NORTH
AND EAST FACADE.
>> SO HERE ARE SOME BUILDING
SECTIONS SHOWING UP TO THAT
HUNDRED AND NINETY FOUR FOOT
CAP THAT'S ALLOWED WITH THE 30
PERCENT REDUCTION WITH THE FULL
ELECTRIFICATION AND THE
PHOTOVOLTAICS.
QUICK SUMMARY OF HOW WE GOT
HERE.
SO FIRST WAS JULY 11TH OF LAST
YEAR WAS THE CITIZEN
PARTICIPATION MEETING.
WE GOT A LOT OF QUESTIONS HERE
ABOUT ELECTRIFICATION, HVAC
SYSTEMS AND A FEW IMPACTS ON
THE ADJACENT PROPERTIES.
SO AT THIS POINT WE WEREN'T
QUITE SURE IF THE PROJECT WAS
GOING TO GO FULLY ELECTRIC.
TURNS OUT IT DID.
SO THAT WORKED OUT REALLY WELL.
WE MOVED THE DESIGN REVIEW
BOARD WHICH IS ON OCTOBER 7TH
THERE WAS A LOT OF AGAIN
QUESTIONS ABOUT ELECTRIFICATION
HERE.
THERE WAS QUESTIONS RELATED TO
LIGHTING AND SAFETY IN THAT
PEDESTRIAN FRIENDLY VEHICULAR
ACCESS POINT WHICH WE DID OUR
BEST TO ADDRESS AND NOW WE'RE
HERE WE'RE WITH THE CITY
PLANNING COMMISSION ON MARCH
4TH AND A QUICK FEW POINTS
ABOUT SUSTAINABILITY.
SO THIS BUILDING IS INTERESTING
IN THAT THE THE MICHIGAN
BUILDING CODE IS GOING TO
CHANGE IN APRIL.
WE'RE GOING TO BE ONE OF THE
FIRST BUILDINGS PERMITTED UNDER
THE NEW TWENTY TWENTY ONE
CODE SO THAT ADOPTS A MORE
STRINGENT VIRGINI IGCC ENERGY
CODE WHICH HAS HIGHER YOU
HIGHER EFFICIENCY STANDARDS FOR
LIGHTING FOR HPC SYSTEMS AND
MORE ROBUST REQUIREMENTS FOR
THE FACADE BOTH TIGHTNESS AND
HIGHER VALUE.
YOU KNOW YOU COULD READ A FEW
MORE BENEFIT SUSTAINABILITY
COMPONENTS HERE AS WELL.
SO THAT KIND OF CONCLUDES I
WANTED TO SAY AND WE'RE HAPPY
TO ANSWER ANY QUESTIONS YOU
HAVE.
>> PERFECT.
THANK YOU SO MUCH.
WE'RE GOING TO MOVE ON TO STAFF
PRESENTATION PLANNER SHAKE.
>> THANK YOU SO MUCH.
I APPRECIATE THE REPRESENTATION
FROM THE APPLICANT MAKES MY
PRESENTATION A LITTLE BIT
EASIER.
SO AS APPLICANT SAID AND AS AN
INTRODUCTION SAID, THIS IS
LOOKING AT THREE DIFFERENT
SIDES TOIVO ON TOP OF NINE
TWELVE THIRTEEN S UNIVERSITY
AVENUE AND PLENTY TO NINETEEN
STORY MIXED USE RESIDENTIAL
BUILDING ON THAT SITE OR ON
THOSE SITES WANTED TO CALL
PLANNING COMMISSION'S ATTENTION
TO A FEW DEVELOPMENT ITEMS THAT
ARE ALSO MENTIONED AND THE
APPLICANT'S PRESENTATION.
THE SITE INTENDS TO HAVE
ROUGHLY FOUR THOUSAND THREE
HUNDRED AND THIRTY TWO SQUARE
OF COMMERCIAL SPACE ON THE
GROUND FLOOR.
THE BUILDING WILL BE NINETEEN
STOREYS OR APPROXIMATELY ONE
NINETY FIVE FEET BY USING THE
THIRTY PERCENT SUSTAINABLE
BONUS EXCEPTION TO HEIGHT
LIMITS.
SO THIS IS PROVIDED THROUGH THE
SOLAR COLLECTOR ARRAY ON THE
ROOFTOP THAT INTENDS TO
COVER AT LEAST 60 PERCENT
OF THE BUILDING FOOTPRINT WHICH
IS AS SPECIFIED IN SECTION
FIVE.
EIGHTEEN FOUR OF THE UTC
ADDITIONALLY AS APPLICANT ALSO
MENTIONED THE ELECTRICAL PANELS
WILL HAVE THE CAPACITY TO SERVE
THE BUILDING BY ELECTRICITY
FROM AND THE INTENTION IS THIS
IS FROM DAY ONE.
>> THERE IS NO VEHICULAR
PARKING PROVIDED IN THE IN THE
PROJECT.
HOWEVER THERE ARE SEVENTY NINE
CLASS A AND TWO CLASS BIKE OR A
BICYCLE PARKING SPACES IN THE
PROJECT AND TWO THIRDS OF THE
BICYCLE THE THE CLASS A BICYCLE
SPACES ARE LIKE ZERO LIFT
SPACES.
IN OTHER WORDS THE SOMEONE CAN
COME IN WITH THEIR BICYCLE AND
IT'S EITHER COUNTER WEIGHTED OR
COUNTERBALANCE THAT IT IS
VERTICAL TO SAVE SPACE WITHIN
THE BICYCLE A CLASS HEY BICYCLE
BUT IT DOESN'T REQUIRE ANY
PHYSICAL FORCE FROM OR MINIMAL
PHYSICAL FORCE FROM THE BICYCLE
USER.
THE TWO CLASS C BICYCLE SPACES
IS A RELATIVELY SMALL NUMBER.
HOWEVER THAT DOES MEET
CODE IN THIS AREA AND D ONE
CLASS C BICYCLE SPACE IS BASED
ON THE SQUARE FOOTAGE
OF COMMERCIAL SPACE.
SO SINCE IT'S A LITTLE BIT MORE
THAN 4000 SQUARE FEET
OF COMMERCIAL SPACE THAT TWO
DOES MEET CODE AND GIVEN THE
COMPETING USES IN THE PUBLIC
AMENITY SPACE WITH THE DENHA
AND OTHER IN TODAY'S PROGRAMING
AND OTHER AMENITIES WITHIN THE
SIDEWALK SPACE THERE ARE ONLY
TWO OF THE CLASSES PROVIDED
ALONG THAT LINE ALONG THOSE
LINES THE SIDEWALKS AND
RECONSTRUCTION OF BOTH
PEDESTRIAN CORRIDORS WILL ALSO
BE PROVIDED.
THIS PROJECT HAS MULTIPLE
ROUNDS OF DEVELOPMENT REVIEW
FROM PLANNING THE PTA, THE
DOWNTOWN DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY,
THE FIRE NATURAL RESOURCES
PARKS ENGINEERING SYSTEMS
PLANNING SOLID WASTE LAND
DEVELOPMENT AND TRANSPORTATION
ACROSS ALL OF THESE DEPARTMENTS
AND AREAS STAFF RECOMMENDED
APPROVAL OR APPROVAL WITH
CONDITIONS WHICH YOU CAN FIND
IN THE STAFF REPORT MINIMAL
CONDITIONS THAT HAVE BEEN
INCLUDED IN THE DEVELOPMENT
AGREEMENT.
>> WITH THAT BEING SAID, STAFF
STAFF'S RECOMMENDATION IS THAT
THE SITE PLAN BE APPROVED
BECAUSE THE CONTEMPLATED
DEVELOPMENT WILL COMPLY WITH
ALL APPLICABLE STATE, LOCAL AND
FEDERAL LAWS, ORDINANCES,
STANDARDS AND REGULATIONS.
THE DEVELOPMENT LIMITS THE
DISTURBANCE OF NATURAL FEATURES
TO THE MINIMUM NECESSARY TO
ALLOW A REASONABLE USE OF THE
LAND.
ALL RIGHT, THANK YOU SO MUCH.
ALL RIGHT.
WITH THAT WE'RE GOING TO MOVE
ON TO PUBLIC COMMENT.
SO THIS IS A PUBLIC HEARING.
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
INDIVIDUALS TO SPEAK UP THE
THREE MINUTES ON THIS ITEM OR
FIRST HEAR FROM THOSE PRESENT
AND THEN REMOTE PARTICIPANTS TO
SPEAK REMOTELY PLEASE PRESS
STAR NIVAT UPON THE PHONE OR
USE PHRASE HAND FEATURE AND
ZOOM FOR PHONE ACCESS.
PLEASE CALL EIGHT SEVEN SEVEN
EIGHT FIVE THREE FIVE TO FOUR
SEVEN AND ENTER MEETING NINE
SEVEN SEVEN SIX SIX THREE FOUR
ONE TWO TWO SIX.
CITY STAFF WILL IDENTIFY
CALLERS BY THE LAST THREE
DIGITS OF THE PHONE NUMBER OR
BY NAME ON ZOOM YOU'LL HEAR AN
AUTOMATED ANNOUNCEMENT WHEN
IT'S YOUR TURN TO SPEAK AND
PLEASE ENSURE THAT ARE IN A
QUIET AREA FOR ALL
PARTICIPANTS.
PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME AND
ADDRESS AT THE BEGINNING
OF YOUR COMMENTS AND IS THERE
ANYONE PRESENT I'D LIKE TO
SPEAK AT THIS TIME?
>> MR. GARBER
, THANK YOU AGAIN
CHARLIE GARBER TWENTY EIGHT
HOROHO COURT.
I COMMEND YOU FOR GOING FULL
ELECTRIC ON DAY ONE WITH ALL
ELECTRIC HEATING.
SOUNDS LIKE MR. WALKER HAS HAD
TO CONTEND WITH NUMEROUS
QUESTIONS ABOUT BUILDING
ELECTRIFICATION OVER THE COURSE
OF THIS PROCESS.
>> I HOPE YOU DON'T MIND IF I
ASK A FEW MORE FOR FUTURE
REFERENCE.
CAN YOU DESCRIBE A SPECIFIC
SYSTEM THAT YOU'RE USING?
IS IT VERY VARIABLE AND FLOW?
ARE YOU EMPLOYING TAX PACKAGE
TERMINAL AIR CONDITIONERS FOR
INDIVIDUAL UNITS?
WILL THERE BE SEPARATE HEATING
SYSTEMS FOR THE APARTMENTS AND
FOR THE COMMON AREAS?
ELECTRIC BOILER SYSTEM IN
ADDITION TO AIR SOURCE HEAT
PUMPS ANY GEOTHERMAL COMPONENT
I ASK BECAUSE THIS COULD BE
USEFUL INFORMATION FOR FUTURE
DEVELOPMENTS TO FOLLOW THE PATH
THAT YOU'RE GOING BY.
THIS IS A LARGE BUILDING, A LOT
OF SQUARE FOOTAGE.
OBVIOUSLY YOU'VE DECIDED
ELECTRIFICATION IS FEASIBLE.
I'D LOVE TO KNOW THE DETAILS
ABOUT THAT.
SECONDLY, WHAT'S YOUR BACKUP
SYSTEM FOR ELECTRICITY?
I'M GUESSING GAS GENERATOR BUT
I'M HOPING BATTERY STORAGE AT
LEAST PARTLY.
>> FINALLY, WHY IS
ELECTRIFICATION AT
ELECTRIFICATION ON DAY ONE
ESPECIALLY NOT IN THE DRAFT
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT.
THE BUILDING IS TAKEN TAKING
ADVANTAGE OF THE 30 PERCENT
HEIGHT EXCEPTION FOR
SUSTAINABILITY.
>> I MEAN OBVIOUSLY IF THEY
NEEDED ELECTRIFICATION TO
ACHIEVE THAT EXTRA HEIGHT TO
EARN THAT EXCEPTION, THERE
WOULD BE NO NEED TO HAVE IT IN
THE DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
BECAUSE IT WOULD RUN WITH THE
ZONING.
I UNDERSTAND THAT.
HOWEVER, IN THIS CASE THEY
DON'T NEED FULL ELECTRIFICATION
ON DAY ONE, WHICH IS WHAT
THEY'RE STATING IN ORDER TO GET
THAT EXCEPTION THEY ONLY HAVE
TO BASICALLY MAKE IT ELECTRIC
READY WITH SOME VAGUE RUN SOME
CONDUIT BASICALLY AND YOU HAVE
SOME ELECTRICAL PANELS THAT CAN
ACCOMMODATE THAT.
>> SO MY QUESTION IS SINCE
IMMEDIATE ELECTRIFICATION ON
DAY ONE IS EXTRA, SHOULDN'T IT
BE IN THE DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
OTHERWISE IT'S NOT ENFORCEABLE.
SO MY QUESTION FOR
YOU, MR.
WALKER, IS IF YOU'RE WHETHER
YOU'RE AMENABLE TO INCLUDING IN
MEDIA TO ELECTRIFICATION IN THE
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT AND IF
NOT WHY NOT?
>> BUT IN GENERAL I SUPPORT
THIS PROJECT.
I THINK THE SUSTAINABILITY
ASPECTS OF IT WHILE THEY DO NOT
MEET THE ZERO PLAN STANDARDS
WHICH ARE NET ZERO ENERGY
CONSTRUCTION ARE SUPERIOR TO
MOST.
>> SO THANK YOU FOR THAT.
>> THANK YOU.
DO WE HAVE ANYONE ELSE PRESENT
I'D LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS TIME
?
>> DO WE HAVE REMOTE CALLERS
>> THERE ARE OUR HANDS RAISED.
>> MR. CHAIR, THANK YOU.
GIVE IT A FEW MORE MINUTES.
>> SECONDS.
SORRY SORRY IF THAT'S OK WITH
THAT WE'RE GOING TO CLOSE
PUBLIC COMMENT.
OK, I'M GOING TO READ THE
PROPOSED MOTION WHICH IS THAT
THE ANN ARBOR CITY PLANNING
COMMISSION APPROVES THE TWELVE
OH NINE S UNIVERSITY SITE PLAN
DATED JANUARY 31ST TWENTY
TWENTY FIVE SUBJECT TO THE
COMBINATION OF ALL LOST PRIOR
TO THE APPLICATION OF ANY
PERMITS EXCEPT DEMOLITION
PERMITS AND RECOMMENDS APPROVAL
OF THE DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
MOVED BY COMMISSIONER WHICH
SECONDED BY COUNCIL MEMBER DISH
.
>> WE ARE IN DISCUSSION WHO'D
LIKE TO KICK THIS OFF
COMMISSIONER MILLS TONIGHT MR.
GARBER TOOK MY LIST AND SO I'M
GOING TO PICK UP EXACTLY WHERE
HE LEFT OFF AND JUST ASK FOR
SOME DETAILS ABOUT
ELECTRIFICATION AND THEN I DO
HAVE THE QUESTION ABOUT THE
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT.
BUT MY QUESTION WAS
SPECIFICALLY ABOUT THE BACKUP
SYSTEM AND HOW YOU GUYS WERE
HANDLING THAT BUT ALSO IF THERE
ARE ANY DETAILS BECAUSE THIS IS
EXCITING TO HAVE THIS ON DAY
ONE SO KIND OF HOW HOW YOU'RE
HANDLING THE HEATING ELEMENTS
SO THE PROJECT IS UTILIZING A
WATER SOURCE HEAT PUMP SYSTEM
WITH CENTRAL PART OF COOLING
TOWERS AND CENTRALIZED BOILERS
ON THE TOP.
THE GENERATOR WILL BE A BACKUP
GAS GENERATOR AND THE HOT WATER
SYSTEM IS A CENTRALIZED PLANT
AS WELL ON THE TOP.
>> ALL RIGHT.
THANK YOU.
>> GREAT.
AND THEN THE QUESTION ABOUT THE
SO OVERALL AND I THINK THAT THE
ONE ABOUT THE DEVELOPMENT
AGREEMENT IS NOT YOU THE
STRATEGY OF STAFFING OVERALL I
THINK THAT THIS FITS I ACTUALLY
I KIND LIKE THE PEDESTRIAN
PART.
I THINK IT'LL BREAK UP WHAT IT
LOOKS LIKE ON THE STREET TO
SOME EXTENT LIKE I THINK IT'S
SUPER CLEVER USE AND I THINK
IT'S AN ATTRACTIVE LOOKING
BUILDING FOR STAFF AND I
NOTICED THAT IT WASN'T IN THE
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT EITHER
AND THAT WE WERE TALKING ABOUT
IT IS THERE IF WE DON'T HAVE IT
ON DAY ONE, IS THAT PROBLEMATIC
WITH THE UDC AND IF IT IF WE'RE
EXPECTING IT ON DAY ONE, IS
THERE A REASON TO NOT INCLUDE
IT IN THE DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
?
>> SO AND I'LL RELY ON DEPUTY
PLANNING MANAGER KELLY TO
SUPPLEMENT MY INFORMATION FROM
WHAT I GATHER FROM THE
REQUIREMENTS FOR THE
SUSTAINABILITY BONUS.
SO IT'S A 30 PERCENT BONUS FOR
SUSTAINABLE WE REQUIRE
BUILDINGS TO BE ALL ELECTRIC
READY OR TO HAVE LIKE BASICALLY
A WAIVER LETTER FROM GTE
EXPLAINING THAT THERE'S NOT THE
THE CAPACITY FOR THAT SITE.
>> UM, AS FAR AS THE UDC, I
DON'T THINK THERE'S A DATE
SPECIFIC THAT IT HAS TO BE LIKE
ONLINE.
I THINK IT'S THOSE TWO PATHWAYS
THAT THE THERE'S ANYTHING ELSE
THAT'S CORRECT.
PLANNER SHAC UH SHARED
ESSENTIALLY WHAT I WOULD SHARE
AND UH THE IF YOU'RE TALKING
ABOUT DIFFERENT MECHANISMS FOR
COMPLIANCE, THIS PROJECT WOULD
BE REQUIRED TO MEET WHAT THEY
SET OUT TO DO WITH THE
SUSTAINABILITY BONUS IN ORDER
TO ACHIEVE A CERTIFICATE
OF OCCUPANCY.
SO WE CHECK FOR COMPLIANCE WITH
THE UM THE ZONING AND SITE PLAN
AND THE SITE COMPLIANCE PROCESS
AND THIS WOULD BE ONE OF THE
ITEMS THAT WE WOULD CHECK FOR
SO SINCE IF IF YOU WANT TO I'M
NOT AWARE OF PAST INSTANCES
WHERE WE HAVE PUT THIS INTO A
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT.
>> IT COULD COME UNDER
ADVISEMENT FOR CITY COUNCIL.
I WOULD WANT TO PROBABLY GET A
LITTLE BIT OF A CHECK IN WITH
THE CITY ATTORNEY'S OFFICE.
I'M NOT SURE ABOUT OK, SO I
JUST WANT TO REPEAT WHAT I
HEARD AND MAKE SURE THEY
UNDERSTAND IT RIGHT.
SO THE PIPELINE FOR EVERYBODY
IS BENEFIT.
>> I PULLED UP THE UDC I'M
GOING TO READ THE
SUSTAINABILITY COMPONENT WHEN
AND WHERE A SOLAR COLLECTOR
COVERS AT LEAST 60 PERCENT
OF THE BUILDING'S FOOTPRINT.
THAT'S DEFINITELY GOING TO
HAPPEN BECAUSE YOU CAN'T GET
THERE.
YOU HAVE TO HAVE IT.
YOU HAVE TO HAVE THE 60 PERCENT
SOLAR SITE AND THE ELECTRICAL
PANELS OF THE BUILDING HAVE THE
CAPACITY TO SOLELY POWER THE
SITE BY ELECTRICITY INCLUDING
ANY CONDUIT AND OTHER NECESSARY
INFRASTRUCTURE FOR FUTURE
CONVERSIONS IF COMPLETE
ELECTRIFICATION IS NOT
ACHIEVABLE AT THE TIME OF THE
INITIAL CONSTRUCTION.
SO NO MATTER WHAT, YOU'RE NOT
GOING TO ISSUE THE CERTIFICATE
OF OCCUPANCY UNLESS THEY THEIR
ELECTRICAL PANELS SHOW THAT
THEY CAN BE FULLY ELECTRIC AND
NO MATTER WHAT THEY HAVE TO
HAVE THE CONDUIT AND NECESSARY
INFRASTRUCTURE AND WHAT I HEARD
YOU SAY POTENTIALLY BUT MAYBE
I'M MAKING UP IS THAT UNLESS
THEY HAVE A LETTER FROM D
SAYING WE CAN HOOK YOU UP RIGHT
NOW THE EXPECTATION IS THEY'RE
GOING TO HOOK UP OR THAT THEY
CAN'T BE.
YEAH, EXACTLY.
THAT THEY CAN'T BE ALL ELECTRIC
THOSE YEAH.
THERE'S THOSE TWO PATHWAYS THE
SOLAR PANELS THAT'S LIKE STEP
ONE HAVING THE INFRASTRUCTURE
IN THERE NOW LIKE OR AT THE
BEGINNING IS STEP TWO IF
THERE'S ESSENTIALLY A WAIVER I
DON'T KNOW IF IT'S OFFICIALLY
CALLED THE WAIVER LETTER BUT
LIKE A LETTER BASICALLY STATING
THAT THAT REGION OF THE TOWN OR
WHATEVER DOESN'T HAVE THE GRID
CAPACITY TO BE ALL ELECTRIC.
IT HAS TO BE ALL ELECTRIC READY
IN OTHER OTHER THAN THAT LIKE
IT'S EXPECTING IT YOU'RE
EXPECTING IT TO BE LIKE AT DAY
ONE.
>> GOT IT.
AND IT SOUNDS LIKE YOU DON'T
NEED THAT WAIVER FROM BECAUSE
THEY'RE TELLING YOU YOU'VE GOT
IT AND SO THIS IS WHY ONE AND
TWO TOGETHER YOU CAN JUST PLUG
IT AND RUN YOU DON'T HAVE TO
WORRY ABOUT YES.
I'LL LET THE APPLICANT REPLY
BUT LIKE YEAH I THINK STAFF
WORK AND V1 AND V2 OF THIS
ROUND V1 MAYBE AND YOU TWO
OF THIS PROJECT EXPLORING THOSE
POSSIBILITIES BECAUSE I THINK
THE APPLICANT INITIALLY WAS
THINKING THAT THERE WAS NOT
CAPACITY AND THAT PART OF TOWN
AND WE'RE EXPLORING THE PATHWAY
THROUGH THE LATTER BUT THROUGH
FURTHER RESEARCH AND THE
APPLICANT CAN FURTHER RESPOND
THEIR WORK WITH THE TO GET
THESE THAT LEVEL OF INFORMATION
.
>> YEAH, WE HAVE HAD MULTIPLE
MEETINGS WITH DATA AND THERE
ARE SOME UPGRADES THAT THEY ARE
DOING IN ORDER TO THEY'LL ADD
ANOTHER PIECE OF EQUIPMENT
BEHIND THE SITE IN THAT
EASEMENT.
BUT THE EXPECTATION IS THEY'VE
INDICATED THAT THEY CAN SUPPORT
IT.
SO WE HAVE THE CAPACITY LETTER
FROM THEM STATING THAT THERE'S
GOOD THAT'S AWESOME.
>> SO FROM MY PERSPECTIVE LIKE
KNOWING HOW THAT CAPACITY
LETTER WORKS IS THE ASSURANCE
TO ME LIKE IN ORDER FOR THEM TO
NOT HOOK UP ON DAY ONE WHAT I'M
HEARING IN THE FUTURE FOR
ANYBODY NOT THESE PEOPLE
BECAUSE THEY'RE GOOD THEY'RE
GOING TO HOOK UP ON DAY ONE BUT
FROM ANYONE ELSE TO NOT
ACCOMMODATE ONE.
>> THE EXPECTATION IS THAT
THEY'VE GOT THAT LETTER.
IT COMES BEFORE THAT ACTUALLY
PLANNING COMMISSION RULES.
IT COMES THROUGH THE SITE PLAN
EVALUATION PROCESS IF YOU ARE
EXPECTING TO USE THE 30 PERCENT
BONUS, YOU'VE GOT TO HAVE IT.
YOU EITHER HAVE TO SHOW THAT
YOU'LL BE ALL ELECTRIC READY
WITH A LETTER OR ALL ELECTRIC
IMMEDIATELY LIKE THAT OR
SOMETHING THAT STAFF LOOKS FOR
IN THE SITE PLAN REVIEW PROCESS
THOSE TWO PATHWAYS ESSENTIALLY
AWESOME.
THANK YOU FOR CLARIFYING SO I'M
COOL WITHOUT IN THE DOOR NEED
TO LOOK AT THE DEVELOPER
AGREEMENT.
THANK YOU.
I'M EXCITED ABOUT THIS.
>> THANK YOU.
WE'RE GOING TO GO TO
COMMISSIONER ADAMS SO I DON'T
KNOW IF THIS HELPS OR ANSWERS
THE QUESTION BUT THE
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT STATES
THAT ANY FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH
THE SITE PLANT IS A MATERIAL
BREACH.
THE SITE PLAN STATES THE
BUILDING IS PLANNED FOR ONE
HUNDRED PERCENT ELECTRIFICATION
ON DAY ONE AND THE BUILDING
WILL PROVIDE ALL ELECTRIC
HEATING SOURCES SO IS PLANNED
FOR THAT'S ALL SQUISHY BUT IT'S
THERE I MEAN IT'S SOMETHING
GREAT.
>> ANY OTHER COMMENTS WITH
RESPECT TO THIS SITE PLAN,
COMMISSIONER?
RIGHT.
I WANT TO TALK ABOUT BIGGING.
SO YOU MENTIONED THAT YOU ALONG
WITH YOUR DEVELOPMENT PARTNERS
HAVE SOME OTHER HOUSING
DEVELOPMENTS THAT ARE ON
UNIVERSITY.
I WAS SURPRISED TO SEE WHAT SIX
HUNDRED AND TWENTY FIVE BEDS
THAT YOU WERE ONLY PROVIDING.
SEVENTY NINE BIKING SPACES.
COULD YOU EXPLAIN TO US WHY YOU
LIMITED YOURSELF TO SEVENTY
NINE?
>> I CAN AGREE THAT THE THE
LOCATION IS A BIG DRIVER JUST
BEING SO STEPS AWAY FROM THE
UNIVERSITY.
WE REALLY ARE TRYING TO
ENCOURAGE PEDESTRIAN TRAFFIC
AND WALKING WHERE WE CAN.
WE ALSO TYPICALLY ENCOURAGE
STUDENTS TO KEEP THEIR BIKES IN
THEIR ROOMS IN IN THEIR UNITS
TOO BUT WE DON'T AND OTHER
PROJECTS THAT ARE SIMILARLY AS
WALKABLE AND CLOSE TO CAMPUS.
WE'VE SEEN THESE BIKE ROOMS
REALLY UNDERUTILIZED SO WE FEEL
IT'S THE RIGHT SIZE FOR WHERE
WE'RE LOCATED AND IS THAT SO
SQUISHY STATEMENT WAS WHAT I
JUST HEARD LIKE YOU SEE THAT
IT'S UNDERUTILIZED BUT YOU HAVE
DEVELOPMENTS ALONG THIS
CORRIDOR AND DO YOU KNOW
WHETHER OR NOT THOSE ROOMS ARE
BEING UTILIZED?
>> I DON'T HAVE OFFICIAL
NUMBERS BUT I HAVE SECURITY
CAMERAS IN THOSE ROOMS.
>> LOOK AT A LOT OF EMPTY
SPACES.
THANK YOU, COMMISSIONER.
WHY DO WE HAVE ANY OTHER
COMMENTS FROM QUESTIONS BOX
IMPRESSION'S
ASPIRATIONS.
>> MR. HAMMERSCHMIDT.
THANK YOU.
I'M VERY CURIOUS.
FIRST OF ALL, I'M VERY
SUPPORTIVE OF THIS PROJECT.
I THINK THE UNIT MIX IS GREAT
AND THE MIX THAN THE FLOORS IS
GREAT.
>> I LOVED YOUR RENDERING WHERE
YOU GO RIGHT UP AGAINST
UNIVERSITY TOWERS BACK IN MY
DAY UNIVERSITY TOWER WHICH IS
THE TALLEST BUILDING AROUND AND
IT'S SHOWING ITS AGE AND I LIKE
YOUR LECTURE.
>> YOU KNOW IT KIND OF IT HELPS
MASK IT A LITTLE BIT.
I WAS VERY STRUCK BY YOUR
PEDESTRIAN FRIENDLY VEHICULAR
ACCESS COMMENT.
>> HOW DO THE VEHICLES TRIGGER
THOSE BOLLARDS?
>> JUST THINKING FROM LIKE A
SAFETY PERSPECTIVE LIKE LOVE
PEDESTRIANS CAN WALK THROUGH.
I LOVE THAT YOU'RE PRIORITIZING
THEM.
HOW DO WE MAKE SURE THAT
THEY'RE SAFE?
SO WE HAVE AN RFID READER
THAT'S LOCATED WE'RE SHOWING I
THINK ON THE COLUMN INSIDE THAT
ENTRY AND THAT RFID READER WILL
SCAN A CREDENTIAL IN THE
WINDSHIELD OF ANY VEHICLE OR
AUTHORIZED PERSON WHO HAS THAT
CREDENTIAL AND THEN THAT WILL
AUTOMATIC LOWER THE BOLLARDS
AND MOVE THE GATE.
WE WOULD ALSO HAVE FOLKS IN OUR
MANAGEMENT OFFICE JUST BE ABLE
TO CONTROL IT FROM WITHIN THE
MANAGEMENT OFFICE IF THERE'S
GUESTS OR ANYBODY WHO NEEDS TO
USE IT THAT DOESN'T HAVE A
CREDENTIAL BUT IT SHOULD BE
AUTOMATIC AND IT'LL BE VERY
CLEAR TO THIS DRIVER THAT THEY
ARE ENTERING A SPACE THAT IS
PEDESTRIAN PRIORITY.
YES.
OK, EXCELLENT.
>> THANK YOU.
GREAT.
ANY OTHER COMMENTS FROM
COMMISSIONERS'?
>> OK, JUST MY THOUGHT ACTUALLY
ONE OF THE THINGS THAT STUCK
OUT TO ME WAS THE LACK OF AN
EFFORT BECAUSE WE DON'T REQUIRE
DO YOU ON ANYMORE.
>> I DID A QUICK CALCULATION AT
THIS POINT THREE NINE ACRS
SIXTEEN THOUSAND NINE HUNDRED
EIGHTY EIGHT SQUARE FEET F.R.
IS ABOUT THIRTEEN POINT FIVE.
SO I THINK IN THE PAST WE'VE
HAD NINE HUNDRED PERCENT.
THIS IS REALLY KIND OF PUSHING
UP A THIRTEEN HUNDRED AND SO
THIS IS KIND OF THE EFFICACY OR
THE EFFICIENCY THAT THE
REDUCTION OF THE REMOVAL
OF FSR.
THIS IS PROBABLY THE FIRST
EXAMPLE FROM WHAT FROM MY
STANDPOINT.
>> SO AS FAR AS SETBACK IT
COMPLIES PERMITTED COMPLIES SO
AGAIN FROM THE STRICT ADHERENCE
TO THE APPLICATION OF A D1
ZONING CODE THIS SOS AND FROM
WHAT WE'VE HEARD WE NEED MORE
STUDENT HOUSING SO I'M INCLINED
TO SUPPORT THIS PROPOSAL.
ANY OTHER THOUGHTS FROM OTHER
COMMISSIONERS IF NOT AGAIN AS A
CLARIFICATION FOR THE PROCESS
HERE SITE PLAN GETS APPROVED
HERE SUBJECT TO THE ASSEMBLY
OF THE LOTS AND THEN THE
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT GOES TO
CITY COUNCIL.
SO WITHOUT FURTHER ADO, I THINK
WE WILL HAVE APRIL CALL VOTE.
THANK YOU COMMISSIONER ADAMS.
YES, COMMISSIONER WETHERBEE.
YES, COMMISSIONER MILLS'.
>> YES.
COUNCIL BRITISH.
YES.
COMMISSIONER ABRAM'S YES.
COMMISSIONER HAMMERSCHMIDT YES.
COMMISSIONER WISCH YES.
COMMISSIONER.
>> YES.
ABOUT KERI'S.
ALL RIGHT.
GOOD LUCK WITH THE DEVELOPMENT
AGREEMENT AND GOOD LUCK WITH
CLOSING AND SO ALL RIGHT.
>> WITH THAT WE ARE MOVING ON
TO THE NEXT ITEM WHICH IS ITEM
NUMBER NINE B THIS IS THREE
FOUR THREE S FIT.
THIS IS THE PROPOSED REZONING
FROM A PUBLIC LAND P L TO D ONE
ZONING TO PURSUE A FUTURE
PRIVATE PUBLIC DEVELOPMENT.
NO DEVELOPMENT IS PROPOSED
CURRENTLY THIS IS A ONE POINT
TWO ONE ACRE SITE INCLUDING THE
LIBRARY BUILDING AND THE
ADJACENT SURFACE PARKING LOT.
THE SITE IS LOCATED IN WARD
FIVE WITH THE STAFF
RECOMMENDATION OF APPROVAL.
WE FIRST MOVE TO PETITIONER
PRESENTATION WITH MR ELI
OF ADDLE AND THEN ACTUALLY WE
DOING SO IF YOU COULD JUST GIVE
US A BRIEF MOMENT TO LOAD THE
PRESENTATION FOR OUR NEXT
APPLICANT THAT WOULD BE
APPRECIATED.
YEAH YEAH.
SOUNDS BACK IN THE DAYS COVID
THIS IS WHEN I WOULD PLAY THAT
THEME SONG OF THE JEOPARDY
THEME SONG ITSELF.
YES YEAH YEAH YEAH YEAH.
YOU GUYS PLAYED AN INTERESTING
THANK YOU FOR YOU.
THANK YOU.
>> YOUR PATIENCE ON THIS.
I KNOW.
THANK YOU.
YEAH.
WOULD ANYONE LIKE A COOKIE.
NO COOKIE NO TO YOU CAN YOU
OPEN IT DESKTOP ORIANNA YOU
WERE JUST I DON'T EVEN LIKE THE
THREE DOTS I HAMBURGER'S OPEN
END DESKTOP FOR THAT AND JUST
IS
OH
ADOBE THAN I USUALLY
CONTROL EL PERFECT ALL RIGHT
WELCOME.
>> THANK YOU.
GOOD EVENING EVERYONE.
HELLO.
GOOD EVENING.
I'M ELANA PROGRAM DIRECTOR
OF THE ANN ARBOR DISTRICT
LIBRARY AND WE'RE HERE TONIGHT
TO TALK TO YOU ABOUT A REZONING
REQUEST FOR THE CURRENT SITE
OF THE CURRENT DOWNTOWN
LIBRARY.
I WANT TO BE CLEAR THAT THIS IS
COMPLETELY SEPARATE FROM WHAT
CITY COUNCIL TALKED ABOUT LAST
NIGHT.
THIS PROJECT WE WOULD
ANTICIPATE TO PROCEED
REGARDLESS OF WHAT HAPPENS WITH
THE BALLOT INITIATIVE THAT THE
CITY COUNCIL PUT ON THE BALLOT
FOR AUGUST.
>> SO THIS IS ABOUT THE LIBRARY
SEEKING REZONING TO ENABLE
POTENTIAL REDEVELOPMENT OPTIONS
FOR THE CURRENT SITE.
SO YOU'RE NOT GOING TO GET THIS
IS THE SITE AS YOU'VE SEEN THIS
ACTUALLY CURRENTLY THREE
PARCELS AFTER THE REZONING.
WE'D LIKE TO REQUEST COMBINING
OF THOSE THREE PARCELS AT SOME
POINT AS WELL.
BUT ORIGINALLY THOSE TWO OTHER
PARCELS WERE SEPARATE
BUSINESSES AND SO THOSE WERE
TURNED INTO LIBRARY PARKING LOT
AS ONE OF A PART OF A PREVIOUS
EDITION.
YOU'RE NOT GOING TO GET A
PRESENTATION FROM LIBRARIES OUT
SOME OLD PHOTOS.
SO THIS IS THE BEALE HOUSE
WHICH STOOD ON THAT SITE IN
1910.
IT WAS THE HOME OF JUNIUS BEAL
WHO WAS A LOCAL PUBLISHER AND
RAN A NEWSPAPER AND ALSO
ACQUIRED THE ASSETS OF DR.
ALVIN WOOD CHASE THE CHASE TEAM
PRINTING HOUSE STILL STANDS ON
THE CORNER OF KATHERINE AND
MAIN STREET.
AND ONE THING I LOVE ABOUT THIS
PHOTO IS YOU CAN SEE HERE LET'S
SEE GOT MOUSE YOU CAN SEE THIS
RIGHT HERE STILL EXISTS IN ANN
ARBOR.
>> ANYBODY KNOW WHERE THAT IS?
THE CLEMENTS LIBRARY GIVE
COMMISSIONER WHETHER IT BE A
COOKIE.
YES.
SO YES, THOSE ARE CARRIAGE
STEPS AND THAT WAS SO THAT A
RESIDENCE OF THE HOUSE COULD
COULD BOARD THE CARRIAGES AND
THOSE BOOKSTAND OUTSIDE THE
CLEMENTS LIBRARY NOW.
SO BY 1956 IT HAD LOST SOME
OF ITS SPLENDOR AND WAS HAD
BEEN ACQUIRED AS THE POTENTIAL
SITE FOR THE NEW DOWNTOWN
LIBRARY BECAUSE AH THE LIBRARY
HAD ALREADY OUTGROWN ITS
CARNEGIE LIBRARY THAT HAD BEEN
BUILT FOR THE HAD BEEN BUILT BY
ANDREW CARNEGIE AND OPERATED BY
THE CITY AND THAT NOW THE
FACADE OF THAT BUILDING STILL
STANDS.
IT'S THE ON THE NORTH FACE
OF NORTH QUAD ON HERE ON ST. SO
I'M SORRY IN WASHINGTON WELL
RIGHT THEY CHANGE NAMES RIGHT.
>> SO THERE WAS CONSIDERABLE
DISCUSSION AT THAT TIME
OF WHETHER OR NOT THE THE NEW
DOWNTOWN LIBRARY WOULD BE BUILT
BY THE SCHOOL DISTRICT BECAUSE
IT WAS A SERVICE OF THE SCHOOLS
ON THAT SITE OR AT A SITE ON
WEST PARK WHERE WEST PARK NOW
CURRENTLY PROTRUDES THROUGH TO
MILLER.
THAT WAS ONE OF THE SITES THEY
WERE TALKING ABOUT.
BUT THERE'S A WONDERFUL ARTICLE
WHERE THE THEN DIRECTOR OF THE
LIBRARY SAYS HE'S RECEIVED THE
ASSURANCE OF THE PUBLIC THAT
THEY WILL PAY TO PARK DOWNTOWN
TO VISIT THE LIBRARY AND THAT
WAS NINETEEN FIFTY SIX.
SO HERE'S A GREAT ARTICLE FROM
NINETEEN FIFTY EIGHT WHERE
THERE ARE TWO NEW LIBRARIES IN
THE CITY AND THE DOWNTOWN ANN
ARBOR DISTRICT LIBRARY WHICH IS
THEN THE PUBLIC LIBRARY AND
WHAT WAS THEN CALLED THE
UNDERGRADUATE LIBRARY OR THE
UGLY RIGHT AND NOW CALLED THE
SHAPIR LIBRARY THAT'S BEEN
REMODELED MULTIPLE TIMES IN THE
INTERIM AND YOU CAN ALSO SEE A
PHOTO OF THE READING ROOM THERE
ON THE LEFT DOWN.
>> HERE'S A PHOTO OF THE
MULTIPURPOSE ROOM IN NINETEEN
SIXTY TWO IF YOU'VE ATTENDED
ANY MEETINGS THAT ROOM IT LOOKS
VERY SIMILAR AT THIS POINT
WE'VE LOST A PEGBOARD WALLS BUT
OTHER THAN THAT THIS IS A MOCK
YOU AND THAT HAPPENED IN THAT
ROOM AND THAT WAS A VERY COOL
EVENT AND THE PROJECTIONIST
BOOTH HAS BEEN REPLACED BY A
LITTLE BIT DIFFERENT EQUIPMENT
IN 1971 THE LIBRARY THAT HAD
OPEN IN 1957 HAD ALREADY
OUTGROWN ITS NEEDS AND THERE
WAS AN ADDITION FUNDED BY THE
SCHOOL DISTRICT TO BUILD ON AN
ADDITIONAL FIRST AND SECOND
FLOOR ON THE BACK OF THE
ORIGINAL BUILDING.
SO THIS SHOWS THE CONSTRUCTION
OF THAT IN 1973 HERE IN
NINETEEN PHOTO FROM THE ROOF
OF THE NOW LONG DEPARTED YMCA
SHOWING THE ADDITION THE
ORIGINAL BUILDING IN THE FRONT
AND THE ADDITION IN THE BACK.
I KNOW THE THING THAT YOU CAN
SEE HERE ON THE TOP OF THE ON
THE TOP OF THE PORCH HAD
ORIGINALLY BEEN PLANNED AS A
GREEN SPACE THAT IT WOULD BE
PLANTED THERE.
THIS IS AN ALL THE NOW BUILDING
AND MANY THINGS HE PLANNED THAT
ON A LOT OF BUILDINGS AND IT
BARELY MADE IT THROUGH ONE
SEASON BECAUSE YOU HAD TO GET A
LADDER TO GET UP THERE AND THE
JANITOR BROKE HIS LEG THE FIRST
TIME TRYING TO DO IT SO THEY
STOPPED DOING THAT WAS A QUOTE
FROM SEVERAL PREDECESSORS
OF MINE AGO THAT THE DIDN'T
LAST VERY LONG AND THEN IN 1989
THE SCHOOL BOARD DECIDED TO
EXPAND THE LIBRARY AGAIN ADDED
ON FURTHER TO THE BACK AS WELL
AS ADDING A THIRD AND FOURTH
FLOOR.
AS YOU CAN IMAGINE THIS IS
THREE BUILDINGS PUT TOGETHER
INTO ONE AND THIS SEAM BETWEEN
THE FIRST AND SECOND FLOOR IN
THE BACK AND THE THIRD AND
FOURTH FLOOR IS NOW GIVING US A
LOT OF TROUBLE.
IT'S ONE OF THE MANY PROBLEMS
WITH THE BUILDING CURRENTLY IN
THAT WE BASICALLY AS WE
DISCOVERED WE SAW SOME MASONRY
STARTING TO BULGE THINGS
STARTING TO LOOSEN UP.
WE HAD THINGS INVESTIGATED
BECAUSE WE DIDN'T WANT TO FALL
ONTO ANYBODY AND WE FOUND THAT
IT WAS NOT BUILT ACCORDING TO
THE DRAWINGS THERE WAS
WATERPROOFING MISSING.
IT WAS FLASHING THAT WAS
MISSING.
THERE WERE METAL SUPPORTS ADDED
TO SUPPORT THE BRICK THAT WAS
NOT IN THE ORIGINAL DRAWINGS.
THOSE ORIGINAL SUPPORTS WERE
CORRODING AND SWELLING AND
PUSHING OFF THE PIECES OF THE
BUILDING.
WE'RE NOW IN A PROCESS TO ADD
WHAT WE HAVE UNFORTUNATELY
STARTED CALLING FRANKENSTEIN
STITCHES TO GO ALL THE WAY
AROUND THAT SEAM ALL THE WAY
AROUND THE BUILDING BECAUSE
THOSE THE MASONRY IS HOLDING TO
EACH ITSELF VERY WELL BUT
THEY'RE MISSING TIEBACKS AND WE
ARE CONCERNED ABOUT LARGE
CHUNKS OF IT FALLING OFF.
SO WE WILL BE ADDING SOME
REMEDIAL DETAILS TO BUILDING TO
KEEP THOSE FROM FALLING OFF.
BUT THAT'S JUST THE ACTUAL
STRUCTURAL SYSTEM OF THE
BUILDING IN THE THE FACADE.
THE FACT IS THIS BUILDING
RESTRAINS LIBRARY SERVICE EVERY
DAY WE ARE IN USE OF ROOMS IN
THE PUBLIC LIBRARIES UP THIRTY
FOUR PERCENT OVER LAST YEAR
ALONE AND WE HAVE AN IMPROVISED
AUDITORIUM ON THE FIRST FLOOR
THAT WAS ONCE THE READING ROOM
AND WE HAVE TO MOVE THINGS
AROUND.
WE ARE TURNING PEOPLE WHO WOULD
LIKE TO USE SPACES IN THE
DOWNTOWN LIBRARY.
WE CONSTANTLY AS MANY OF YOU
KNOW IN 2012 WE SAW A BOND THAT
WAS NOT SUCCESSFUL.
SO SINCE THEN WE'VE LOOKED AT
WHAT ARE WAYS THAT WE CAN FUND
THIS PROJECT WITHOUT ASKING THE
VOTERS FOR A NEW MILLAGE.
OUR POLLING SHOWED US THERE
STILL WAS FAIRLY SOFT SUPPORT
FOR A NEW TAX SPECIFICALLY FOR
THE LIBRARY.
SO WE'VE BEEN LOOKING AT OTHER
OPTIONS THAT LEADS US TO OUR
REQUEST TONIGHT.
THIS IS JUST A MAP OF THE
DOWNTOWN ZONE AS YOU'RE ALL
WELL AWARE, THE DOWNTOWN
LIBRARY EXISTS SURROUNDED ON
ALMOST ALL SIDES BY ONE IT IS
D2 CROSS OR SEE ONE A RATHER
ACROSS THE STREET.
NO I'M SORRY THAT IS D2 ACROSS
THE STREET AND THEN ON THE
FORMER WILLOTT IS THE PUDI FOR
THAT PROJECT SO IT'S CLEARLY
SURROUNDED AS INCLUDING THE
SPACE RIGHT BEHIND US THAT IS
CURRENTLY GOT A SIXTEEN STOREY
STUDENT HOUSING PROJECT UNDER
CONSTRUCTION.
>> SO CLEARLY ONE ZONING IS
WHAT'S APPROPRIATE FOR THIS
SITE AND REZONING THE CURRENT
LIBRARY DOWNTOWN LIBRARY THE D
ONE OPENS UP NEW POSSIBILITIES
MEETING COMMUNITY NEEDS AND
LIBRARY NEEDS, DELIVERING A NEW
DOWNTOWN LIBRARY, NEW HOUSING
AND NEW OPPORTUNITIES WITHOUT
NEW TAX REVENUE.
THE IDEA WOULD BE THAT THE
LIBRARY WOULD OCCUPY SEVERAL
FLOORS ON THE BOTTOM AND WE
WOULD SELL THEN AIR RIGHTS TO
OTHER DEVELOPMENT PARTNERS AND
USE THE PROCEEDS FROM THAT TO
SERVICE THE BONDS TO BUILD A
NEW LIBRARY OR AS I LIKE TO
CALL IT, PICKING THE DEVELOPERS
UP BY THEIR ANKLES AND SHAKING
THEM TO THE NEW LIBRARY FALLS
OUT.
>> SO WE WANT TO ESTABLISH THAT
THIS IS NOT SOMETHING THAT'S
NEW TO US.
THIS IS SOMETHING THAT'S
HAPPENING ALL ACROSS THE US.
HERE'S AN ARTICLE FROM THE
LINCOLN INSTITUTE OF LAND
POLICY ABOUT A PROJECT IN
PORTLAND.
CITIES ARE TACKLING THE HOUSING
CRUNCH BY BUILDING ABOVE THE
LIBRARY.
HERE'S A PROJECT IN CHICAGO
INDEPENDENCE LIBRARY AND
APARTMENTS OPEN TWENTY NINETEEN
MULTIPLE STORIES OF HOUSING
ABOVE A LIBRARY BRANCH.
HERE'S A NEW PROJECT IN
MANHATTAN INWOOD OPENED JUST
THE LAST FALL.
IT'S CALLED THE ALYSA.
IT'S TEN STORIES OF AFFORDABLE
HOUSING ABOVE A PUBLIC LIBRARY
BRANCH.
AND THEN WE ALSO HAVE THE
BROOKLYN BROOKLYN BROOKLYN
PUBLIC LIBRARY SUNSET PARK
BRANCH WHICH REPLACED A
BUILDING.
IT WAS BUILT IN NINETEEN EIGHTY
FIVE AND OPENED IN TWENTY
TWENTY THREE WITH SIX STORIES
OF HOUSING ABOVE A NEW LIBRARY
BRANCH.
NOW THOSE ARE ALL BRANCHES
WE'RE NOT AWARE OF PROJECT FOR
SOMEONE TO REPLACE THEIR
DOWNTOWN LIBRARY YET WITH A NEW
LIBRARY FUNDED BY HOUSING
ABOVE.
AND THEN FINALLY HERE'S THE
TAYLOR STREET APARTMENTS IN
LITTLE ITALY BRANCH LIBRARY
CHICAGO PUBLIC LIBRARY OPENED
IN TWENTY NINETEEN.
NOW MOST OF THESE PROJECTS ARE
DONE BY LIBRARIES THAT ARE
EITHER PART OF THE CITY
GOVERNMENT OR MUCH MORE
ENTWINED WITH THE CITY
GOVERNMENT THAN ADL IS ADLS AN
INDEPENDENT TAXING ENTITY?
WE'RE NOT PART OF A CITY.
WE'RE NOT PART OF THE COUNTY
OF OUR OWN ELECTED BOARD, OUR
OWN DEDICATED TAX.
AS A RESULT WE DON'T HAVE
NATURAL PARTNERS THE WAY THAT
FOR EXAMPLE THE CITY OF CHICAGO
WAS BUILDING A THEY NEED TO
BUILD A PUBLIC LIBRARY.
THEY NEEDED TO BUILD AFFORDABLE
HOUSING.
SO IT WAS REALLY ONE CLIENT.
SO THIS IS A LITTLE BIT MORE
COMPLICATED THAN THOSE PROJECTS
BUT IT'S ALSO SOMETHING HAS A
LOT MORE POTENTIAL BECAUSE
OF THE PROXIMITY TO TRANSIT IN
PARTICULAR.
HERE'S I LOVE THIS MAP OF EVERY
METRO AREA IN THE USA WHERE
MORE THAN FIVE PERCENT
OF POPULATION USES PUBLIC
TRANSIT TO GET TO WORK.
NOW GRANTED WE HAD A LOT
OF WORK TO DO OF COURSE AS A
NATION BUT THERE'S AN WASHTENAW
COUNTY PUNCHING WAY ABOVE ITS
WEIGHT AS BEING JUST ABOUT THE
ONLY PLACE IN THE MIDWEST
OUTSIDE OF CHICAGO WHERE MORE
THAN FIVE PERCENT OF THE
POPULATION USES PUBLIC TRANSIT
TO GET TO WORK AND TRANSIT HAS
BECOME A MAJOR PART OF PUBLIC
LIBRARY DEVELOPMENT AROUND THE
WORLD THIS IS THE DOC ONE
LIBRARY AND AHUS.
THIS IS A COMBINATION OF PUBLIC
LIBRARY AND CIVIC OFFICES.
IT'S KIND LIKE THE STUFF LIKE
THE CLERK'S OFFICE AND THINGS
LIKE THAT IS IN THIS BUILDING.
AND ONE OF THE THINGS THAT WAS
AMAZING ABOUT THIS I'M ALMOST
OUT OF TIME IS THAT AT FIVE
P.M. THEY RING A CHIME.
THEY SAY ALL THE STAFF ARE
GOING HOME.
EVERYONE HAVE A NICE AND THE
PUBLIC IS ALLOWED TO STAY IN
THE BUILDING.
I DON'T THINK THAT'S SOMETHING
THAT WOULD HAPPEN IN OUR NEW
LIBRARY BUT IT'S A LOVELY IDEA.
HERE'S ANOTHER NEW PROJECT IN
CALGARY.
THIS HAS A TERRIFIC IT'S BUILT
OVER A LIGHT RAIL LINE AND THIS
IS A GORGEOUS PROJECT AND IN
TWENTY NINETEEN WE PRODUCED A
FEASIBILITY STUDY FOR A MIXED
USE LIBRARY THAT STUDIED THE
POSSIBILITY AND THE FEASIBILITY
OF IT.
THIS IS JUST A CROSS-SECTION
OF WHAT THAT COULD LOOK LIKE.
THIS IS FROM TWENTY NINETEEN.
THAT WORLD DOESN'T EXIST
ANYMORE.
I DON'T KNOW THAT WE WOULD
INCLUDE UNDERGROUND PARKING.
I DON'T KNOW THAT WE'D INCLUDE
COMMERCIAL OFFICE SPACE BUT
HERE'S WHAT IT LOOKS LIKE IF
THE PROJECT ACROSS THE STREET
GETS OFF THE GROUND THERE'S A
DOTTED LINE SHOWING THE CORE
SPACE IN SPACE AND THERE'S THE
DOWNTOWN LIBRARY RIGHT IN THE
MIDDLE.
SO HERE'S ALL THE DIFFERENT
SORT OF PARTNER POSSIBILITIES
WE HAVE.
WE'D LOVE TO DO SENIOR HOUSING
OR INDEPENDENT LIVING,
AFFORDABLE HOUSING, WORK FORCE
HOUSING MARKET RATE.
WE'D LOVE TO HAVE A VISUAL ARTS
PARTNER OR A PERFORMING ARTS
PARTNER OR AN EDUCATIONAL
PARTNER.
WE ARE ALREADY WORKING ON
NONPROFIT TENANTS AND CAFE FOOD
TENANTS AND BUSINESS ART
INCUBATORS SOMETHING RIGHT TO
TRY THE DOWNTOWN LIBRARY RIGHT
NOW.
SO SORRY FOR RUNNING OVER JUST
A LITTLE BIT BUT THOSE ARE THE
SLIDES AND PLEASE LET US KNOW
WHAT YOUR QUESTIONS ARE.
>> ALL RIGHT.
PERFECT.
THANK YOU SO MUCH.
>> WITH THAT WE'RE GOING TO
MOVE ON TO STAFF PRESENTATION.
THANK YOU AND THANK YOU TO THE
PETITIONER FOR THAT GREAT
OVERVIEW AND FOR THE VERY COOL
HISTORIC PHOTOS.
I'LL JUST REITERATE THAT WE ARE
TALKING ABOUT THE DOWNTOWN
LIBRARY.
IT IS A ONE POINT TWO ONE ACRE
SITE WHICH INCLUDES THE
BUILDING AND THE ADJACENT
SURFACE PARKING LOT.
THIS IS A REQUEST TO REZONE
FROM PUBLIC LAND TO D ONE
DOWNTOWN CORE DISTRICT TO
PURSUE A FUTURE PRIVATE PUBLIC
PARTNERSHIP.
THERE IS NO DEVELOPMENT THAT IS
PROPOSED CURRENTLY.
THIS IS JUST THE REZONING.
THERE IS NO ASSOCIATED SITE
PLAN.
BUT AS THE PETITIONER SAID, THE
INTENT IS TO REDEVELOP THE SITE
WITH A NEW LIBRARY, NEW HOUSING
AND POTENTIAL OTHER AMENITIES
IN THE FUTURE.
>> THE PETITIONER ALSO
MENTIONED THE FEASIBILITY STUDY
WHICH IS LINKED IN THE STAFF
REPORT AND GAVE SOME IMAGES
OF WHAT A POTENTIAL DEVELOPMENT
WOULD LOOK LIKE IN TERMS OF THE
D.
ONE ZONING PLANNING STAFF FINDS
THAT DOWNTOWN CORE IS
APPROPRIATE FOR THIS LOCATION.
THE CURRENTLY ADOPTED MASTER
PLAN DOES RECOMMEND DOWNTOWN
CORE ZONING FOR THIS SITE AND
ONE ALLOWS FOR HIGH DENSITY
MIXED USE DEVELOPMENT WHICH IS
WHAT IS BEING DESCRIBED HERE AS
A POTENTIAL NEW DEVELOPMENT FOR
THE SITE EVERY ZONE D ONE THE
SITE COULD ACCOMMODATE A NEW
LIBRARY, A MIXED USE BUILDING
INCLUDING A LIBRARY BRANCH OR
IT COULD ALLOW FOR ANY OTHER
PERMITTED USES IN THE D ONE
SHOULD THE LIBRARY DECIDE TO
RELOCATE AND MAKE THE SITE
AVAILABLE FOR OTHER USES.
UM, JUST A NOTE THAT IF RESULT
D ONE THE DOWNTOWN CHARACTER
OVERLAY ZONING DISTRICTS WILL
APPLY AND THAT IN THIS CASE
WOULD BE THE MIDTOWN CHARACTER
OVERLAY DISTRICT AND THAT WOULD
REGULATE THE BASIC BUILDING
FORM INCLUDING HEIGHT STREET
WHILE HEIGHT AND MACING
ARTICULATION AND THIS IS
DIFFERENT FROM THE DEVELOPMENT
STANDARDS FOR THE PUBLIC LAND
DISTRICT WHICH ARE GENERALLY
NON FOR THINGS LIKE BUILDING
COVERAGE, SET BACKS AND HEIGHT
.
SO THE REZONING WILL OFFER MORE
PREDICTABILITY FOR THE BUILDING
FORM IF AND WHEN THE SITE IS
DEVELOPED REDEVELOPED AND THEN
OVERALL YES STAFF DOES
RECOMMEND WELL OK.
>> THANK YOU SO MUCH.
ALL RIGHT.
WE'RE GOING TO MOVE ON TO A
PUBLIC HEARING.
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
INDIVIDUALS TO SPEAK FOR THREE
MINUTES ON THIS ITEM WE'LL
FIRST HEAR FROM THOSE PRESENT
AND THEN REMOTE PARTICIPANTS TO
SPEAK REMOTELY PLEASE PRESS
STAR NINE LIVE ON THE PHONE OR
RAISE HAND ON ZOOME FOR PHONE
ACCESS.
PLEASE CALL EIGHT SEVEN SEVEN
EIGHT FIVE THREE FIVE TO FOUR
SEVEN AND INTERMEDIATED NINE
SEVEN SEVEN SIX SIX THREE FOUR
ONE TWO TWO SIX CITY STAFF WILL
IDENTIFY CALLERS THE LAST THREE
DIGITS OF THE PHONE NUMBER OR
BY NAME ON ZOOM YOU'LL HEAR AN
AUTOMATED ANNOUNCEMENT THAT
CERTAIN TO SPEAK AND PLEASE
ENSURE YOU'RE IN A QUIET AREA
FOR ALL PARTICIPANTS.
PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME AND
ADDRESS AT THE BEGINNING
OF YOUR COMMENTS.
DO WE HAVE ANY OF US PRESENT TO
SPEAK AT THIS TIME
?
>> THANK YOU CHARLIE KENT
GARBER AGAIN I HAVE NO
BACKGROUND ON THIS PROJECT.
I HADN'T READ UP ON IT AND I'M
JUST REZONING MY ONLY QUESTION
IF THIS TIME IS ABOUT THE
TIMING, WHY NOW?
WHY APPLY FOR THE CHANGE FROM
PART D ONE AT THIS TIME MIGHT
NOT BE BETTER TO WAIT UNTIL WE
HAVE A DEVELOPMENT CONCEPT IN
PLACE SO WE KNOW PERHAPS WHAT
WE'RE LOOKING AT IN THE FUTURE
.
OTHERWISE I'M GENERALLY
SUPPORTIVE BUT THAT'S MY
QUESTION.
THANK YOU, MR. GARBER.
DO WE HAVE OTHER FOLKS THAT
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
TIME?
THERE'S ONE HAND RAISED.
MR. CHAIR WILL GO TO KUMMETZ.
>> YES, AND I'M JUST GIVING YOU
PERMISSION TO ADDRESS THE
PLANNING COMMISSION.
>> HI, THIS IS ADAM SAVAGE
AGAIN IN LAS VEGAS QUICKLY
THINK THE LIBRARY FOR BRINGING
THIS FORWARD AND FOR YOUR GREAT
PRESENTATION WILL BE EAGERLY
AWAITING TO SEE THE PLANS YOU
COME UP WITH.
THE KIND OF  WHO ON A VACATION
TO DENMARK THIS SUMMER DRAGGED
MY FAMILY TO VISIT DAQUAN THE
NEW LIBRARY IN OUR HOUSE AND IT
WAS COOL TO SEE IT IN YOUR
PRESENTATION.
IT'S A WONDERFUL SPACE BUT IT
DOESN'T HAVE HOUSING SO IT
SEEMS TO ME THAT THIS WILL BE
EVEN BETTER.
LIBRARIES ARE SO IMPORTANT
ESPECIALLY IN THIS DAY AND AGE.
I CAN'T WAIT TO SEE OUR NEW
TALL WORLD-CLASS LIBRARY AND
WHO KNOWS MAYBE I WILL EVEN BE
ABLE TO LIVE ABOVE IT SOMEDAY.
I WHOLEHEARTEDLY SUPPORT THIS
REZONING.
THANK YOU.
DO WE HAVE OTHER CALLERS ON THE
LINE?
>> THEY'RE NOT THEIR HANDS
RAISED.
THANK IT JUST A SECOND.
>> OK WITH THAT WE'RE GOING TO
CLOSE PUBLIC COMMENT
.
I'M GOING TO READ THE PROPOSED
MOTION WHICH IS AT THE ANN
ARBOR CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
HEREBY WAIVES THE AREA PLAN
REQUIREMENT AS PROVIDED IN
SECTION FIVE POINT TO NINE
POINT SEVEN EIGHT FIVE POINT TO
NINE POINT SEVEN B OF THE
UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT
CODE BECAUSE NO NEW
CONSTRUCTION IS CURRENTLY
PROPOSED AND RECOMMENDS THE
MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL APPROVE
THE ZONING OF THREE FOUR THREE
S FIFTH AVENUE TO D ONE
DOWNTOWN CORE DISTRICT MOVE BY
COMMISSIONER WEIS SECOND BY
COMMISSIONER WEATHERBEE.
ALL RIGHT.
WE ARE IN DISCUSSION.
WOULD ANYONE LIKE KICK US OFF?
>> YES.
COMMISSIONER EVANS, THANK YOU.
I DON'T KNOW IF THIS IS A
QUESTION FOR YOU OR FOR YOUR
STAFF, BUT I JUST I KNOW THAT
THIS IS DIFFERENT THAN WHAT
CITY COUNCIL WAS DISCUSSING BUT
I AM INTERESTED TO KNOW OR
MAYBE JUST NEED SOME
CLARIFICATION ABOUT THE CITY
AMENDMENT VOTED IN TWENTY
EIGHTEEN THAT I THINK
ARTICULATED THIS BE HELD IN
PERPETUITY.
>> CAN YOU JUST CLARIFY FOR ME
I THINK I'M CONFUSED EXISTING
ORDER LANGUAGE SPECIFIES CITY
OWNED LAND.
THIS IS NOT CITY OWNED LAND.
IT'S OWNED BY THE PUBLIC
LIBRARY GOT ITS OWN PEOPLE BUT
NOT CITY OWNED.
PERFECT.
THAT'S RIGHT.
THANK THANK YOU FOR THE
CLARIFICATION COMMISSIONER
WHICH I JUST WANTED TO ASK MR.
GARBER'S QUESTION OF WHY NOW
JUST TO GIVE YOU AN OPPORTUNITY
TO ANSWER IF YOU WANT IT.
>> SURE.
THANK YOU.
SO THE REASON WE WANT TO ASK
THIS QUESTION NOW IS TO HAVE
THIS PUBLIC LANDS PRECLUDES
PRIVATE OWNERSHIP AND PRIVATE
DEVELOPMENT SO WE WANTED TO
HAVE THIS HURDLE OUT OF THE WAY
BEFORE WE STARTED TALKING TO
POTENTIAL DEVELOPMENT PARTNERS
AS OPPOSED TO HEADING INTO
THOSE NEGOTIATIONS IN THOSE
DISCUSSIONS WITH THE ZONING AS
A POTENTIAL QUESTION AND A
POTENTIAL POINT WHERE THE
PROJECT COULD BECOME DERAILED.
SO WE WANTED TO SEE IF THERE
WAS SUPPORT IN THE COMMUNITY
FOR THE REZONING REQUEST SO
THAT WE COULD HAVE THAT DONE
BEFORE BEGINNING TO TALK TO
DEVELOPMENT PARTNERS ABOUT IT.
SO THIS IS BECAUSE YOU STILL
HAVE SOFT SUPPORT FOR A NEW
MILLAGE TO DO THE DEVELOPMENT
THAT YOU WANT TO DO SO BECAUSE
YOUR OF EVALUATION OF THAT SAYS
THAT YOU CAN'T GET THE FUNDING
THAT WAY IT'S BETTER FOR YOU TO
ATTEMPT TO DO IT WITH THE
DEVELOPMENT PARTNER AND THEN
GET THE LIBRARY.
WELL, YES.
AND ALSO WE HAVE A HOUSING
CRISIS SO WE WANT TO SEE WHAT
WE COULD DO ABOUT THAT.
YOU IT'S A OUR BOARD FEELS THAT
IT IS A WE NEED TO RUN OUT THE
POTENTIAL OF BEING ABLE TO FUND
THIS WITHOUT NEW TAX REVENUE
BEFORE GOING BACK TO THE VOTERS
AND ASKING FOR AN ADDITIONAL
MILLAGE.
>> OK, THANK YOU SO MUCH.
>> THANK YOU.
COMMISSIONER WEATHERBEE.
>> SO MOST OF ME LOVES THIS BUT
THERE'S A TINY LITTLE PART
OF ME THAT THINKS IF WE MAKE
THIS CHANGE YOU COULD JUST TELL
IT RIGHT.
LIKE THERE'S NO REQUIREMENT
THAT THE ADL KEEPS A DOWNTOWN
LIBRARY AT ALL.
>> RIGHT.
THERE IS.
>> AND IS THAT MY WORST CASE
SCENARIO?
WELL, IT ACTUALLY STILL GIVES
US THE OPPORTUNITY TO BUILD I
MEAN YOU'RE NOT GOING TO SELL
IT FOR A DOLLAR SO SO IN MY
MIND I THINK OK, THE WORST CASE
SCENARIO WAS THAT WOULD BE THAT
THERE IS NO DOWNTOWN LIBRARY
AND THAT THERE IS HOUSING THERE
INSTEAD AND THAT WOULD BE
TERRIBLE BUT ALSO NOT TERRIBLE.
>> SO I THINK FOR ME I KNOW
MOST OF YOU HERE FROM THE
LIBRARY AND I TRUST YOU BUT YOU
KNOW THE THINGS HAPPEN.
>> I MEAN WE KNOW THAT I'M I'D
LOVE TO ASK YOU IF YOU'RE
COMMITTED TO KEEPING A DOWNTOWN
LIBRARY, BUT I DON'T WANT TO
PUT YOU ON THE SPOT.
>> PLEASE DO WE ARE ABSOLUTELY.
ARE YOU COMMITTED TO KEEPING
DOWNTOWN LIBRARY?
YES, WE ARE COMMITTED TO A
DOWNTOWN LIBRARY ON THAT SITE.
RIGHT.
THIS IS ASKED STAY ON BUT IT'S
THE CATBIRD SEAT.
RIGHT.
WE ARE IN AN EXCELLENT
LOCATION.
WE ARE DIRECTLY ACROSS FROM THE
BUSIEST TRANSIT HUB NOT JUST IN
THE COUNTY BUT RIGHT NOW.
I MEAN YOU'RE GOING TO NEED THE
TRANSIT IS COMING THERE MORE
AND WITH THE ARRANGEMENT
OF ATOMS NETWORK WE'RE IN THERE
EXACTLY THE BEST PLACE TO BE.
WE OWN THE PROPERTY NOW WE
COULD NOT ACQUIRE THAT
PROPERTY, YOU KNOW, AND IT PUTS
US IN A GREAT POSITION.
WE ARE DEEPLY COMMITTED TO A
NEW LIBRARY ON THAT SITE AND WE
COULD HAVE SOLD IT WITHOUT THE
SAME ZONING CHANGE TO WRITE.
>> AWESOME.
THANK YOU.
OTHER THOUGHTS COMMENTS
COMMISSIONER HAMMERSCHMIDT,
THIS IS NOT A VERY WELL THOUGHT
OUT COMMENT BUT I I'M JUST
REALLY I THANK YOU SO MUCH FOR
YOUR PRESENTATION AND YOUR
COMMITMENT TO YOU KNOW, NOT
JUST RECOGNIZING THAT THE
LIBRARY IS SUCH AN IMPORTANT
COMMUNITY SPACE AND WANTING
NEWER AND BETTER BUT WORKING TO
SOLVE OTHER COMMUNITY ISSUES.
I JUST DID A QUICK GOOGLE
SEARCH TO SEE LIKE I COULDN'T
FIND ANY OTHER LIKE MAIN
LIBRARIES EITHER THAT ARE DOING
WHAT YOU ARE DESIRING TO DO TO
BE THE FIRST IN THE COUNTRY TO
DO THAT I THINK WOULD BE
INCREDIBLE.
SO THANK YOU.
I LOVE EVERYTHING THAT YOU'RE
DOING AT THE LIBRARY.
VERY EXCITED FOR THE TWENTY
TWENTY FIVE.
>> SOME ARE BEING EXCELLENT.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH AND WITH NO
HUMILITY THERE ARE A LOT
OF THINGS WE DO AT ADL THAT
WE'RE THE FIRST TO DO IN THE
U.S. THANK YOU.
OTHER COMMENTS THOUGHTS AS A
CLARIFICATION OF PROCESS
REZONING DOES GO TO CITY
COUNCIL.
>> THIS IS SIMPLY A
RECOMMENDATION IF NOBODY ELSE I
GUESS IN ABSENCE OF THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN CURRENTLY
UPDATE PROCEEDING RIGHT NOW I'M
DEFERRING TO THE TWO THOUSAND
NINE LAND USE PLAN ELEMENT AS
WELL AS THE DOWNTOWN PLAN WHICH
DOES CONTEMPLATE THAT THIS IS A
DOWNTOWN CORE.
>> WE SAW THE OVERALL CONTAR
OF THE DAEWON SURROUNDING IT
AGAIN HEALTH, SAFETY, GENERAL
WELFARE BEING A DRIVER
OF REZONING DECISIONS I AM IN
SUPPORT OF IT.
>> SO WITH THAT WE ARE GOING TO
A ROLL CALL VOTES ZEF
COMMISSIONER LEE YES.
>> COMMISSIONER WISCH YES.
COMMISSIONER HAMMERSCHMIDT YES.
COMMISSIONER ABRAN YES.
>> COUNCIL MEMBER.
DISH ENTHUSIAST.
YES.
>> COMMISSIONER MILLS YES.
COMMISSIONER WETHERBEE YES.
>> MR. ADAMS ENTHUSIASTIC YES.
>> THAT ENTHUSIASTICALLY
CARRIES.
>> ALL RIGHT.
THANK YOU.
GOOD LUCK AT CITY COUNCIL.
ALL RIGHT.
THANK YOU.
WE'RE GOING TO MOVE ON TO OUR
ALL RIGHT.
LAST REGULAR ITEM WHICH IS NINE
WE'RE GOING TO MOVE ON TO OUR
C THIS IS THE INTRODUCTION
LAST REGULAR ITEM WHICH IS NINE
OF TWO THREE TO FIVE CRISTOL
C THIS IS THE INTRODUCTION
WAY.
OF TWO THREE TO FIVE CRISTOL
THIS IS PROPOSED REZONING OUR
WAY.
FORAY INTO PIAO PUBLIC LAND
THIS IS PROPOSED REZONING OUR
ZONING.
FORAY INTO PIAO PUBLIC LAND
THE LAW WAS RECENTLY ACQUIRED
ZONING.
BY THE CITY FOR AN EXPANSION
THE LAW WAS RECENTLY ACQUIRED
OF THE HICKORY NATURE AREA.
BY THE CITY FOR AN EXPANSION
THE SITE IS LOCATED IN WARD
OF THE HICKORY NATURE AREA.
ONE.
THE SITE IS LOCATED IN WARD
THAT RECOMMENDATION IS APPROVAL
ONE.
AND WITH THAT WE WILL GO TO
THAT RECOMMENDATION IS APPROVAL
STAFF PRESENTATION.
AND WITH THAT WE WILL GO TO
>> THANK THIS IS TWO THREE TO
STAFF PRESENTATION.
FIVE HICKORY AWAY SORRY CRYSTAL
>> THANK THIS IS TWO THREE TO
WEIGH THAT YOU SEE ON YOUR
FIVE HICKORY AWAY SORRY CRYSTAL
SCREEN AND IT IS IT WAS
WEIGH THAT YOU SEE ON YOUR
RECENTLY DONATED TO THE CITY.
SCREEN AND IT IS IT WAS
IT IS NINE POINT EIGHT NINE
RECENTLY DONATED TO THE CITY.
POINT EIGHT FIVE NINE ACRES AND
IT IS NINE POINT EIGHT NINE
WAS DONATED AS PART OF THE
POINT EIGHT FIVE NINE ACRES AND
ADJACENT TOWNHOUSE DEVELOPMENT
WAS DONATED AS PART OF THE
AT TWENTY SIX A ONE PONTIAC
ADJACENT TOWNHOUSE DEVELOPMENT
TRAIL WHICH YOU CAN SEE RIGHT
AT TWENTY SIX A ONE PONTIAC
HERE WHERE MY CURSOR IS
TRAIL WHICH YOU CAN SEE RIGHT
HOPEFULLY DIRECTLY TO THE RIGHT
HERE WHERE MY CURSOR IS
OF THE SITE.
HOPEFULLY DIRECTLY TO THE RIGHT
>> THAT SITE PLAN WAS APPROVED
OF THE SITE.
IN TWENTY NINETEEN.
>> THAT SITE PLAN WAS APPROVED
IT IS KNOWN AS THE ONE FORMERLY
IN TWENTY NINETEEN.
IT WAS KNOWN AS THE COTTAGES
IT IS KNOWN AS THE ONE FORMERLY
AND GREEN AND IT IS A THIRTY
IT WAS KNOWN AS THE COTTAGES
TWO ACRE SITE THAT WAS
AND GREEN AND IT IS A THIRTY
DEVELOPED WITH TWO HUNDRED AND
TWO ACRE SITE THAT WAS
TWENTY ONE DWELLING UNITS.
DEVELOPED WITH TWO HUNDRED AND
THESE DONATION WAS REVIEWED AND
TWENTY ONE DWELLING UNITS.
RECOMMENDED BY THE LAND
THESE DONATION WAS REVIEWED AND
ACQUISITION COMMITTEE OF THE
RECOMMENDED BY THE LAND
PARKS ADVISORY COMMISSION AT
ACQUISITION COMMITTEE OF THE
THE NOVEMBER 9TH AND TWENTY
PARKS ADVISORY COMMISSION AT
TWENTY MEETING.
THE NOVEMBER 9TH AND TWENTY
IT WILL BE AN EXPANSION OF THE
TWENTY MEETING.
EXISTING HICKORY NATURE AREA
IT WILL BE AN EXPANSION OF THE
WHICH IS THIS KIND OF SKINNY
EXISTING HICKORY NATURE AREA
PURSELL JUST TO THE NORTH THAT
WHICH IS THIS KIND OF SKINNY
WAS ALSO DONATED TO THE CITY AS
PURSELL JUST TO THE NORTH THAT
PART OF THE NORTH SKY
WAS ALSO DONATED TO THE CITY AS
DEVELOPMENT IN 2008.
PART OF THE NORTH SKY
SO IT WILL BE EXPANSION OF AN
DEVELOPMENT IN 2008.
EXPANSION OF AN EXISTING PUBLIC
SO IT WILL BE EXPANSION OF AN
PARK AND WITH THAT PURCHASING
EXPANSION OF AN EXISTING PUBLIC
OR ACCEPTING LAND DONATIONS
PARK AND WITH THAT PURCHASING
DOES NOT AUTOMATICALLY CHANGE
OR ACCEPTING LAND DONATIONS
THE ZONING DESIGNATION BUT
DOES NOT AUTOMATICALLY CHANGE
BECAUSE IT IS NOW OWNED BY THE
THE ZONING DESIGNATION BUT
CITY OF ANN ARBOR PUBLIC LAND
BECAUSE IT IS NOW OWNED BY THE
IS THE APPROPRIATE ZONING
CITY OF ANN ARBOR PUBLIC LAND
DISTRICT.
IS THE APPROPRIATE ZONING
SO STAFF RECOMMENDS APPROVAL
DISTRICT.
WITH THE REZONING OF THE
SO STAFF RECOMMENDS APPROVAL
REZONING WHICH IS CONSISTENT
WITH THE REZONING OF THE
WITH THE INTENT AND PURPOSE
REZONING WHICH IS CONSISTENT
OF THE DISTRICT AND MEETS ALL
WITH THE INTENT AND PURPOSE
APPLICABLE STANDARDS.
OF THE DISTRICT AND MEETS ALL
ALL RIGHT, THANK YOU SO MUCH.
APPLICABLE STANDARDS.
WE'RE GOING TO MOVE ON TO
ALL RIGHT, THANK YOU SO MUCH.
PUBLIC HEARINGS.
WE'RE GOING TO MOVE ON TO
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
PUBLIC HEARINGS.
INDIVIDUALS TO SPEAK UP TO
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
THREE MINUTES ON THIS
INDIVIDUALS TO SPEAK UP TO
PARTICULAR ITEM.
THREE MINUTES ON THIS
WE'LL FIRST HEAR FROM THOSE
PARTICULAR ITEM.
PRESENT AND THEN REMOTE
WE'LL FIRST HEAR FROM THOSE
PARTICIPANTS TO SPEAK FORMALLY
PRESENT AND THEN REMOTE
PLEASE PRESS STAR NINE ON THE
PARTICIPANTS TO SPEAK FORMALLY
PHONE OR USE THE RIGHT HAND
PLEASE PRESS STAR NINE ON THE
FEATURE ON ZOOM AND PHONE
PHONE OR USE THE RIGHT HAND
ACCESS.
FEATURE ON ZOOM AND PHONE
PLEASE CALL EIGHT SEVEN SEVEN
ACCESS.
EIGHT FIVE THREE FIVE TO FOUR
PLEASE CALL EIGHT SEVEN SEVEN
SEVEN AND MEETING NINE SEVEN
EIGHT FIVE THREE FIVE TO FOUR
SEVEN SIX SIX THREE FOUR ONE
SEVEN AND MEETING NINE SEVEN
TWO TWO.
SEVEN SIX SIX THREE FOUR ONE
>> SEX CITY STAFF WILL IDENTIFY
TWO TWO.
CALLERS BY THE LAST THREE
>> SEX CITY STAFF WILL IDENTIFY
DIGITS OF THE PHONE NUMBER OR
CALLERS BY THE LAST THREE
BY NAME ON ZOOM YOU'LL HEAR AN
DIGITS OF THE PHONE NUMBER OR
AUTOMATED ANNOUNCEMENT WHEN
BY NAME ON ZOOM YOU'LL HEAR AN
IT'S YOUR TURN TO SPEAK AND
AUTOMATED ANNOUNCEMENT WHEN
PLEASE ENSURE YOU'RE IN A QUIET
IT'S YOUR TURN TO SPEAK AND
AREA AND FOR ALL PARTICIPANTS
PLEASE ENSURE YOU'RE IN A QUIET
PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME AND
AREA AND FOR ALL PARTICIPANTS
ADDRESS AT THE BEGINNING
PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME AND
OF YOUR COMMENTS.
ADDRESS AT THE BEGINNING
DO WE HAVE ANY ONE PRESENT THAT
OF YOUR COMMENTS.
TO SPEAK AT THIS TIME?
DO WE HAVE ANY ONE PRESENT THAT
>> SEEING NONE.
TO SPEAK AT THIS TIME?
DO WE HAVE ANY CALLERS PHONE
>> SEEING NONE.
NUMBER ENDING IN FIVE FREE FOR
DO WE HAVE ANY CALLERS PHONE
YOU PERMISSION TO ADDRESS
NUMBER ENDING IN FIVE FREE FOR
PLANNING COMMISSION
?
>> I THINK THAT THEM JUST
CRASHED GO OK.
YEAH
LET'S HOLD FOR JUST A
SECOND TECHNICAL DIFFICULTIES
NOW IF YOU CAN HEAR ME NOW WE
WE CAN NOW THANK YOU BACK FOR
THIS ESTAB STOLLBERG AGAIN ONE
TWO ZERO TWO TREVER STREET.
I WANT TO JUST LET YOU KNOW
THAT THE ONE WAS SOLD TO A
LARGE STUDENT RENTAL COMPANY
OUT OF AUSTIN, TEXAS.
>> IT'S BEEN RENAMED AN AMBER
TRAIL I BELIEVE IS THE NAME
THAT COMPANY BY THE WAY WAS NOT
LONG AFTER THAT SELL OTHER
ASSETS WERE ACQUIRED BY
BLACKSTONE.
YES.
THAT BLACKSTONE NOT RELEVANT TO
THE WHAT YOU'RE VOTING ON
TONIGHT EXCEPT I KNOW THAT THIS
IS THE REAL ESTATE WORLD THAT
WE LIVE IN.
THESE ARE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
.
HOUSING IS SECONDARY.
SO THAT'S ALL.
>> THANK YOU.
ANY OTHER CALLERS
?
>> THERE IS NO ONE ELSE WITH
THEIR HAND RAISED.
OH OK.
GIVE IT THE SAME.
OK, BUT THAT WE'RE GOING TO
CLOSE THE COMMENT.
ALL RIGHT.
I'M GOING TO READ THE PROPOSED
MOTION THE ANN ARBOR CITY
PLANNING BY RECOMMENDS THAT THE
MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL APPROVED
THE HICKORY NATURE AREA
EXPANSION REZONING FROM AFTER A
2:00 P.M. MOVE BY COMMISSIONER
WRIGHT SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER
MILLS.
>> WE ARE IN DISCUSSION COUNCIL
MEMBER THAT OH NO IT'S FINE.
>> I THOUGHT IT HAD BEEN
RENAMED SO GLAD TO BE REMINDED
BECAUSE I DRIVE I MEAN I DRIVE
BIKE WHATEVER.
>> BUT WHY DID IT TAKE SO LONG
TO REZONE IT.
YEAH OR I MEAN I THINK THIS IS
JUST ONE OF THE CLEANUPS THAT
WE'RE DOING.
THERE ARE A NUMBER OF PARKS OR
OTHER UNIVERSITY OWNED LAND
PUBLICLY OWNED LAND THAT WE'RE
GOING THROUGH AND TRYING TO
UPDATE THE ZONING MAP SO THAT
IS ACCURATE AND I THINK THAT
THIS ONE JUST KIND OF GOT LOST
ALONG AWAY AND IS NOW MAYBE I'M
NOT SURE EXACTLY WHY NOW IS THE
TIME.
>> OH IT'S JUST LIKE WHY NOT
EARLIER I THINK WAS THE
QUESTION.
SO IT GOT LOST.
>> THAT SOUNDS GOOD.
OK, THAT'S EXACTLY RIGHT AND
YOU COULD EXPECT POTENTIALLY
SOME MORE OF THESE IN
PARTICULAR U OF M ACQUISITIONS
WILL BE TRYING TO BATCH OUT
OVER THE COURSE OF THIS YEAR.
OK, THANK YOU.
ANY OTHER COMMENTS QUESTIONS
MR. HAMMERSCHMIDT IS A QUICK
QUESTION.
>> IS THIS BEING DEVELOPED AT
ALL INTO PARK OR IS IT JUST THE
PLAN IS FOR IT TO STAY AS IT
LOOKS JUST LIKE A WOODED AREA
OR IS THAT TBD?
>> I'M NOT SURE.
I THINK THAT'S MORE OF A
QUESTION FOR OUR PARKS TO
ANSWER.
>> THANKS.
ANY OTHER COMMENTS IT'S NOT
ABOUT THIS SEEMS PRETTY
STRAIGHTFORWARD.
JUST TRY TO CLEAN UP AND AGAIN
A QUICK POINT OF ORDER FOR
CLARIFICATION.
>> THIS IS REZONING BEING
RECOMMENDED TO CITY COUNCIL.
>> ALL RIGHT.
WITH THAT WE'LL HAVE TO ROLL
CALL VOTE.
THANK YOU, COMMISSIONER ADAMS.
YES.
PRESSURE WETHERBEE YES.
MR. MILLS.
>> YES.
COUNCIL MEMBER.
YES.
>> MR. ABRAMS.
YES, MR. HAMMERSCHMIDT.
>> YES.
PRESSURE WISE.
YES.
YES, I'M SURE WE
ENTHUSIASTICALLY YES.
>> I WOULD SAY THAT TEPIDLY.
HARRIS YES.
I WANT TO YES.
>> YES YES.
GREAT MOTION PASSES.
>> WE'RE GOING TO MOVE ON TO
PUBLIC COMMENT OTHER BUSINESS
WHICH THERE ARE NONE AND THEN
WE'LL MOVE ON TO PUBLIC
COMMENT.
THIS IS THE SECOND OPPORTUNITY
FOR INDIVIDUALS TO SPEAK UP THE
THREE MINUTES ON ANY ISSUE.
FIRST HEAR FROM THOSE PRESENT
AND THEN REMOTE PARTICIPANTS TO
SPEAK REMOTELY PLEASE STAR ON
THE PHONE OR USE RACE HAND
FEATURE ON ZOOME FOR PHONE
ACCESS PLEASE CALL EIGHT SEVEN
SEVEN EIGHT FIVE THREE FIVE TO
FOUR SEVEN AND MEETING ID NINE
SEVEN SEVEN SIX SIX THREE FOUR
ONE TWO TWO SIX CITY STAFF WILL
IDENTIFY CALLERS BY THE LAST
THREE DIGITS OF THE PHONE
NUMBER OR BY NAME ON ZOOM AND
YOU'LL HEAR AN AUTOMATED
ANNOUNCEMENT WHEN IT'S YOUR
TURN TO SPEAK AND PLEASE ENSURE
YOU'RE IN A QUIET AREA FOR ALL
PARTICIPANTS.
PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME AND
ADDRESS AT THE BEGINNING
OF YOUR COMMENTS.
>> IS THERE ANYONE PRESENT THAT
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
TIME SEEING NONE?
DO WE HAVE ANY REMOTE CALLERS?
THERE ARE NO HANDS RAISED.
GIVE IT TO ZILLIONTH.
OK OK WITH THAT I'LL CLOSE
PUBLIC COMMENT TAKES US TO
AGENDA ITEM TWELVE WHICH IS
COMMISSION PROPOSED BUSINESS
ARE THERE ANY YES COMMISSIONER.
>> RIGHT OK A COUPLE OF THINGS
.
ONE QUESTION ABOUT WHO UPDATES
THE PLANNING WEBSITE IS THAT US
IS THAT YOU?
IS THERE SOME OTHER PERSON
WHO'S RESPONSIBLE FOR THAT?
DIFFERENT PAGES ARE RESPONSIBLE
.
THEY HAVE DIFFERENT STAFF ON
THE TEAM BASED ON THEIR
SPECIFIC AREA.
YOU MIGHT HAVE NOTICED THAT
THERE WAS A RECENT SWITCH OVER
IN CONTENT MANAGEMENT SYSTEM.
IT CAUSED LINKS TO FALL OUT
OF WORKING ORDER FOR ABOUT A
WEEK AS THE SITE RE INDEX.
>> BUT YES, IN SHORT EACH
DEPARTMENT IS RESPONSIBLE FOR
IN LARGE PART FOR THEIR
CONTENT.
WE'RE AWARE THAT WE NEED SOME
CLEANUP AND I'LL LET YOU GET TO
YOUR YOUR ACTUAL POINT.
>> BUT I'M DREADING IT.
>> NO NO DREADED WHAT THE TASK
IS I'M SMILING BEHIND MY MASK
SO IF WE COULD JUST GET OUR
PLANNING COMMISSION ASSIGNMENTS
UPDATED IT STILL IS SLIGHTLY
OUT DATE BECAUSE WE HAVE A NEW
PLANNING COMMISSIONER AND THEY
HAVEN'T BEEN ADDED AND THERE
ARE POINT THAT TO THEIR
COMMISSION HAS BEEN AT IT.
>> YOU KNOW, THAT MIGHT HAVE
BEEN ONE OF THE IF YOU MADE A
CHANGE IN THIS INTERIM PERIOD
THEN IT WOULDN'T CARRY OVER TO
THE NEW WEBSITE.
I THINK WE DID FIX IT BUT I
THINK IT MIGHT HAVE BEEN AN
ITEM THAT DIDN'T CARRY OVER
CORRECTLY AND I WILL LOOK AT
THAT AND THEN THE OTHER THING I
THINK MIGHT BE HELPFUL AS WE
EMBARK ON THE COMPREHENSIVE
PLAN IS TO ADD A SECTION HERE.
THERE ARE LOTS OF PLACES WHERE
THE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN IS
LINKED BUT IT'S NOT DIRECTLY
HERE SO THAT PEOPLE COULD START
ON THIS PAGE, LEARN ABOUT WHERE
WE ARE LIKE THE TIME TABLE
BECAUSE I THINK A LOT OF PEOPLE
ARE STARTING TO TUNE IN AND THE
INFORMATION WE HEARD TODAY WAS
THERE WASN'T CITIZEN
PARTICIPATION BUT AS WE KNOW
THERE WERE THOUSANDS OF HOURS
AND THOUSANDS OF CONTACTS OVER
THE LAST TWO YEARS SINCE WE
WERE YEAR AND A HALF I GUESS
SINCE WE'VE STARTED THE
PROCESS.
BUT SOME RESIDENTS OR RESIDENTS
HAVEN'T BEEN ABLE TO TUNE INTO
THAT.
AND SO IF WE CAN HAVE THAT MORE
FRONT AND CENTER, I THINK THAT
THAT COULD HELP IF IT'S
SOMETHING THAT WE CAN ASK FOR
FOR OUR WEBSITE.
AND THEN THE OTHER THING THAT
I'M HEARING IN THE COMMUNITY IS
QUESTIONS ABOUT CONFLICTS
OF INTEREST AND I THINK IT
WOULD BE HELPFUL TO ALSO BRING
TO THE FOREFRONT THAT OUR
BYLAWS HAVE A WHOLE SECTION
DETAILED SECTION ON OUR
CONFLICTS OF INTEREST AS WELL
AS OUR ANNUAL DISCLOSURES THAT
STATE WE HAVE TO DISCLOSE THAT
WE LIVE IN THE CITY WHO ARE
EMPLOYER IS AND WHETHER OR NOT
ANYONE THAT IS PRESENTING
BEFORE THE COMMISSION WE HAVE
BUSINESS WITH SO THAT PEOPLE
KNOW THAT AS VOLUNTEERS THAT'S
SOMETHING THAT IS REQUIRED AND
THAT WE COMPLY WITH THAT JUST
TO HELP WITH INFORMATION
SHARING SO THOSE ARE JUST SOME
THINGS THAT I THOUGHT COULD AT
LEAST INFORM OUR RESIDENTS
ABOUT HOW PLANNING COMMISSION
WORKS AND HOW THEY PARTICIPATE
IN THAT.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
COUNCIL MODISH THIS ISN'T
EXACTLY THIS IS DEFINITELY NOT
BUSINESS.
I JUST WANTED TO SAY THAT I WAS
LOOKING UP THAT CONTACT
INFORMATION OR OUTREACH
INFORMATION AND ON NOVEMBER
20TH 2024 THE CONSULTANT'S
RESULTS REPORTED THAT THERE HAD
BEEN 35000 WEBSITE VIEWS FOR
THE PLANNING WEBSITE 3000
SURVEY PARTICIPANTS, SEVEN
EVENTS DOWNTOWN AND BRANCH
LIBRARIES 380 PLUS ATTENDEES.
>> THAT'S PROBABLY A GOOD
NUMBER BUT IT'S INTERESTING
THAT THERE'S SO MUCH MORE
WEBSITE VIEWS AND WHO KNOWS IF
THOSE ARE MULTIPLE VIEWS BY THE
SAME PERSON BUT AND BUT AND I
LOOKED ON MY LIFE AND MY LIFE
ONLY STARTED PUBLISHING ANY
STORIES JANUARY 30TH AND
FEBRUARY 11TH THIS YEAR.
AND SO I SUSPECT WHY WE'RE
STARTING TO GET RESPONSE IS
THAT IT'S ONLY NOW HITTING
HTML5 AND THAT'S SO UNFORTUNATE
AND THAT'S CLEARLY NOT
ANYBODY'S FAULT FOR THANK YOU.
>> CAN I ASK A FOLLOW UP OF THE
REQUEST FOR THE COMPREHENSIVE
PLAN SPOTLIGHT?
>> UH, CRONSHAW WHICH ARE YOU
REFERRING TO HIGHLIGHTING US ON
THE LANDING PAGE FOR A TWO
GUBJRG TO HAVE THAT BE MORE
PROMINENT?
>> NO I WAS THINKING ON THE
ACTUAL PLANNING COMMISSION PAGE
LIKE WE HAVE OUR WORK PLAN, WE
HAVE THE ASSIGNMENTS, WE HAVE
BYLAWS AND SINCE THIS IS SUCH A
BIG PART OF WHAT WE'RE GOING TO
BE WORKING ON THIS NEXT YEAR I
THOUGHT IT MIGHT JUST BE NICE
TO HAVE A HEADING THAT SAYS THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN AND THEN A
LINK OFF TO THE CONTENT THAT
ALREADY EXISTS.
SO I FEEL LIKE THE CONTENT IS
ALREADY THERE.
IT'S JUST NOT AGGREGATED.
AND SO IF YOU ARE NEW TO
CITY
GOVERNMENT AND HOW TO FIND
INFORMATION THAT CAN BE HARD
LIKE I DIDN'T EVEN KNOW THAT WE
HAD THE DELIVERY EMAIL SERVICE
WHERE YOU CAN GO AND SUBSCRIBE
TO ALL THESE THINGS AND THEN
EVERY TIME SOMETHING HAPPENS
THE CITY SENDS YOU A NOTE AND
SAYS THIS MEETING IS HAPPENING
THAT MEETING IS HAPPENING.
>> SO THAT WAS HELPFUL TO ME.
SO THAT WAS MY SUGGESTION.
>> WELL, WE DO ARRANGE CERTAIN
THINGS BASED ON THE THE THE
PAGE POPULARITY AND TO UPGRADE
PLANNING WILL LEAD YOU TO THE
PRIMARY PLANNING WEBSITE WHICH
HAS AS A SIDEBAR WHERE IT SHOWS
THE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN KIND
OF RIGHT AWAY AND THAT'S
TYPICALLY HOW I ACCESS IT AND
THEN WE HAVE TO UPGRADE PLAN
WHICH WE SHARE OUR SHORT URL SO
THE AICTE ABOUT IT.
SO YEAH I CAN'T CONTROL IT
ANYWAY SO I'M ASKING COULD YOU
ALSO SPECIFY WHICH PAGE THAT
THE ASSIGNMENTS ARE INCORRECTLY
DESCRIBED IF WE MAYBE TAKE THAT
ONE OFFLINE WHICH OF THE
SPECIFICITY PROBABLY
COMMISSIONER NORTONS PRESENCE
IS THAT THE ONE THAT YOU'RE
REFERRING TO?
>> IT'S ALL OF THEM THERE.
>> IT JUST NEEDS TO BE UPDATED.
I JUST I DON'T KNOW THAT IT'S
NECESSARILY LIKE A TOTAL ALL
COMMISSION ITEM IF IT'S WE JUST
SAY SO WE JUST HAVE NO
MECHANISM TO TALK PUBLICLY
ABOUT IT.
SO THAT WAS THE REASON WHY I
WAS DOING IT AT THIS TIME.
SO THIS IS NOT THE RIGHT PLACE
THAT I THINK WE NEED TO MEND
OUR AGENDA TO BE ABLE TO TALK
ABOUT THINGS LIKE THIS BECAUSE
THIS IS THE ONLY TIME WE COULD
DO IT PUBLICLY.
>> I WAS JUST SIMPLY MENTIONING
THIS SEEMS LIKE A CLERICAL
ADMINISTRATIVE THING THAT COULD
BE HANDLED OR DEFERRED TO
FUTURE.
>> YEAH, YEAH.
THE CHAIR ANIMALS LOOK LIKE HE
WANTS TO SAY SOMETHING.
>> OK, OK.
DO WE HAVE ANY OTHER COMMISSION
PROPOSED BUSINESS IF NOT I'D
JUST LIKE TO SAY THANK YOU ALL
THIS IS OBVIOUSLY HARD WORK AND
THANK YOU FOR BEING GOOD PUBLIC
VOLUNTEERS TO ALL OF YOU.
>> I THINK THERE'S A LOT
OF REALLY GREAT FOLKS HERE SO
UM OK WITH THAT WE'RE GOING TO
MOVE ON TO OUR FINAL ITEM WHICH
IS A TREMENDOUS MOVE BY
COMMISSIONER AND SECONDED BY
COMMISSIONER MILLS.
>> ALL THOSE IN FAVOR SAY I.
HI, WE ARE ADJOURNED.
>> THANK YOU